
                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   Zimbabweans opt for hardship in South Africa rather than hopelessness
   at home


   ON A dirt road in Weipe, a farming area in South Africa on the banks
   of the Limpopo river about 60km (37 miles) west of the busy Beitbridge
   border post, a few cars are waiting. Unemployed South Africans try to
   make a bit of money driving Zimbabweans--either locally employed or
   freshly arrived from across the river--wherever they want to go. But
   business is hard, as many new immigrants have no money. And there is
   also the risk of being arrested by the police for transporting people
   without visas.

   When a police car duly arrives, the few bystanders hoping for a ride
   quickly vanish into the bush. Two friendly policemen stop the vehicles
   driving past, checking the passengers' papers. Six illegal Zimbabweans
   are picked up and ushered into the police car. They will be driven to
   the military base south of Musina, the nearby town, and deported
   within 24 hours.

   Nick van der Vyver, who heads the office of the Geneva-based
   International Organisation for Migration on the Zimbabwean side of
   Beitbridge, says that so far this year an average of about 570
   deported Zimbabweans cross his threshold every day. The figure is
   higher than last year's, and is probably far smaller than the number
   of those who do not get caught. Of those who do, most will probably be
   back on the South African side of the border within a few days;
   sealing over 200km of border is almost impossible. They add to the
   thousands who cross legally, in both directions.

   The numbers say much about the desperation and determination of the
   impoverished Zimbabweans fleeing a country that is collapsing around
   them. Over 3m Zimbabweans are thought to have left their homeland (out
   of a population of 13m), most of them for South Africa. It is there
   that many already have friends or relations and where the economic
   opportunities are presumed to be best. But these emigrants are now
   causing problems far beyond the border.

   At this time of year the Limpopo is dry, making it easy to cross by
   foot. But in the rainy season Zimbabweans dreaming of a better life
   drown in the surging waters, or are occasionally killed by crocodiles.
   Almost as dangerous are those who offer to help them cross for money:
   they often rob them blind or worse.

   And crossing the border is only the beginning of their problems. Once
   they are in South Africa, making a living is hard. Some find jobs on
   farms, with minimum monthly salaries of about 1,000 rand ($142): not
   much, but still more than ten times a teacher's salary in Zimbabwe at
   the unofficial exchange rate. Many professionals, unable to survive at
   home with 80% unemployment, inflation heading for 100,000% (according
   to the IMF) and severe shortages of basic items such as meat, sugar
   and cooking oil, are also coming over. An association of Zimbabwean
   teachers in Johannesburg tries to help its 3,500 members with papers,
   professional certification, advice and jobs. Doctor Ncube, the
   chairman, believes there are over 10,000 Zimbabwean teachers in South
   Africa.

   Limkani, who once taught in a secondary school in Matabeleland, hauled
   boxes in a warehouse for 75 rand a day when he came to South Africa in
   2005. Another high-school teacher speaks of the one-bedroom flat he
   shares with seven others. His work permit means he is among the lucky
   ones. But he is struggling to win certification as a teacher in South
   Africa: he needs a letter from the Zimbabwean authorities, which say
   they have no stationery.

   Many cannot even afford housing. In central Johannesburg the Methodist
   church has become a refuge for about 1,000 people, most of them
   Zimbabweans. At night the building bursts with people sleeping on
   every inch of floor; all must share just six lavatories. A Zimbabwean
   salesman has been living there for about a year. He finds occasional
   jobs as a security guard for 70 rand a day. Like most Zimbabweans in
   South Africa, he sends groceries and money home to his wife and
   children whenever he can.

   The vast majority leave Zimbabwe because they cannot make ends meet.
   But some are escaping political persecution. Pianos, a 43-year-old
   official of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), shows
   multiple scars on his face, legs and knees from the beatings he says
   he received from the police and pro-government youth militia. He fled
   after an opposition gathering on March 11th, during which MDC leaders
   were arrested and later beaten up. He is now hoping to obtain
   political asylum. But, even if successful, this will take years--and
   his wife and four of his children remain in Zimbabwe.

   Many Zimbabweans say they will go back if things improve at home. In
   the meantime, though, Zimbabwe is losing its people and South Africa
   has a problem on its hands. With an unemployment rate of 26%, or
   closer to 40% by some measures, it can hardly absorb the flow. Some
   locals feel that Zimbabweans are competing for scarce jobs and adding
   to the crime rate, although there is no hard evidence to support this.
   The opposition Democratic Alliance wants refugee camps set up; the
   government disagrees, saying that most Zimbabweans are economic
   migrants, not refugees.

   South Africa's government has been heavily criticised for not doing
   more to hasten the end of President Robert Mugabe's disastrous regime.
   One of its excuses for not pushing harder has been fear of
   precipitating a crisis in Zimbabwe that would adversely affect South
   Africa. But it is hard to escape the conclusion that the damage is
   already being done.


   The Kurds say they still want more of it 


   THIS week's death sentence on Ali Hassan al-Majid, architect of the
   Anfal (Spoils) campaign in 1987-1988 against Iraq's Kurds, of whom up
   to 180,000 may have been killed, does not mark the end of the affair.
   After months of evidence of gassing, deportations and mass graves,
   Iraq's special tribunal found "Chemical Ali", as Saddam Hussein's
   cousin is more widely known, guilty of various heinous crimes,
   including, most significantly for the Kurds, genocide. But Nechirvan
   Barzani, prime minister of Iraq's Kurdistan region, said that the
   tribunal's definition of the Anfal as a genocide was just a first step
   in a new campaign to have that military operation recognised as a
   genocide by the rest of the Arab world as well as by international
   bodies such as the UN.

   The Kurds have long sought such recognition for the Anfal as well as
   separate acknowledgement for the crime of the gas attack on the town
   of Halabja, where 5,000-odd people were killed in 1988. In the
   mid-1990s a New York-based lobby, Human Rights Watch (HRW), which
   documented the Anfal crimes, including the razing of 3,000-plus
   Kurdish villages, tried to bring the issue before the UN Security
   Council. But too few big countries backed the move.

   This week's decision by the Iraqi court is unlikely to give the Kurds
   the momentum they need: many outsiders question the independence and
   fairness of the special tribunal in Baghdad. And it is unclear how
   much support Iraq's Kurds would get from their Arab compatriots in a
   campaign to win recognition of those mass crimes. Many of Iraq's Sunni
   Arabs say privately that the Kurds deserved what they got because
   their fighters sided with Iran in the war with Iraq in the 1980s--an
   argument used by Mr Majid in the trial just ended.

   In the early 1990s Kanan Makiya, an Iraqi Shia Arab, in a book called
   "Cruelty and Silence", lambasted Arab politicians and intellectuals in
   the region for their silence about the regime's brutalities. This
   week's reaction, muttered the Kurds, was not so different. Pan-Arab
   satellite television channels covered the trial and its verdict
   widely. But its commentators and those in Arab newspapers dwelt little
   on the mass murders for which Mr Majid was condemned.


   A politician who paid the price for telling Israelis unpalatable
   truths

   ABROAD he has a reputation as a tireless peacemaker; at home he is a
   byword for political failure. When Yossi Beilin announced his decision
   to step down as head of the left-liberal Meretz party at its next
   leadership election in the spring, there were palpable sighs of relief
   not just from his rivals but also from his friends, who hope that he
   still has a chance to be remembered for his bold statesmanship instead
   of his defective leadership.

   Mr Beilin was one of the first mainstream Israeli politicians to push
   for what most Israelis now accept: the need to give the Palestinians
   an independent state. And it was largely thanks to him that serious
   peace talks first got going. In the early 1990s, when Israel was
   talking to local Palestinian leaders in an attempt to circumvent the
   exiled Yasser Arafat and his Palestine Liberation Organisation in
   Tunis, Mr Beilin argued as a youthful deputy foreign minister that
   without Arafat, whom most Israelis dismissed as an incorrigible
   terrorist, peace talks would be worthless. With the backing of Shimon
   Peres, he encouraged the secret meetings in Oslo between an Arafat
   aide and two Israeli peace activists that led eventually to the famous
   handshake between Arafat and Yitzhak Rabin on the White House lawn.

   He stuck to his views even as the peace process collapsed, the violent
   second intifada erupted and the international "road map" that followed
   it began to stall, arguing to the last that Arafat was the only
   Palestinian leader who had the standing to make peace. In 2003 he and
   a Palestinian counterpart launched another peace plan, the Geneva
   Accord, which, even with the intifada raging, won the support of some
   30% of Israelis. According to Dov Weisglass, an adviser to Ariel
   Sharon, the popularity of this unofficial "civil society" initiative
   was one factor that prompted the then prime minister to ignore the
   rage of his own Likud party and extract Israel's soldiers and settlers
   from Gaza in 2005.

   Lately Mr Beilin has courted unpopularity by speaking reluctantly of
   the need for Israel to do business, through a third party, with the
   rejectionists of Hamas now that they have deposed Arafat's old Fatah
   movement and control the Gaza Strip. His daring has long hurt his
   political career. When Palestinian suicide-bombings disheartened
   Israel's peace camp he lost his relevance to Labour, left to head
   Meretz, and ran it into the ground. His own defence, that other
   parties had appropriated Meretz's peace agenda, is only partly true;
   he neglected its other core issues such as social justice and civil
   rights. An allegedly dictatorial management style did not help.

   By contrast, Mr Peres, who had shifted from a hawk in his early days
   to a dove by the time Mr Beilin worked for him, shifted effortlessly
   back to the political centre and is now Israel's president. There is
   no question who has been the cannier politician. But Mr Beilin has
   been perhaps Israel's boldest peacenik. He will be missed, if his
   departure from the arena is permanent.


   President Mwai Kibaki is loth to back down after his fraudulent
   election victory

                                                               AP/Reuters

                                 AP/Reuters


   IT SEEMED that Kenya had pulled out of its nosedive into violence
   earlier this week--until the "big man" complex pulled the country back
   towards disaster. Now the recalcitrance of its disputed president,
   Mwai Kibaki, egged on by his bloody-minded backers, threatens to wreck
   east Africa's most prosperous economy and increases the chance of a
   drawn-out civil conflict. Ghana's president, John Kufuor, who
   currently chairs the African Union, is still trying to mediate, but so
   far in vain. Despite a concerted call for peace by Kenya's leading
   editors, businessmen and bishops, the prospect of an early compromise
   looks dim.

   Earlier, the opposition leader, Raila Odinga, who claims he was
   cheated of victory by Mr Kibaki thanks to a false count after the
   presidential poll on December 27th, told his Orange Democratic
   Movement supporters to put off planned demonstrations in order to give
   international mediation a chance to work. Mr Odinga continued to
   insist that Mr Kibaki was an "illegal" president but his agreement to
   avoid the possibility of a lethal street clash between the Oranges and
   security forces was seen as a breakthrough. The next day, however, Mr
   Kibaki responded with apparent contempt to Mr Odinga's climbdown by
   unilaterally appointing 17 cabinet ministers. That was also a slap in
   the face of foreign diplomats who thought they had a deal with Mr
   Kibaki not to make any appointments until the business of mediation
   had run its course.

   So more riots broke out--and more deaths look certain. At least 500
   Kenyans have so far been killed. Thousands more have been wounded by
   gunfire, hacked by machetes, beaten with sticks, or scorched in fires.
   Most of the victims have been Kikuyus, from Mr Kibaki's tribe, the
   country's largest and richest, making up some 22%. The local Red Cross
   estimates that 200,000 Kenyans have been displaced, nearly all of them
   for ethnic reasons. The worry is that reprisals by Kikuyu gangs in
   areas where Kikuyus predominate, particularly against Mr Odinga's
   fellow Luos, may feed a fresh cycle of bloodshed. "If the reprisals
   start," says a senior civil servant, "I fear you could see the armed
   forces breaking into tribal factions."

   Mr Kibaki's choice of cabinet ministers does not suggest he is
   reaching out to those who opposed him. In the parliamentary poll, held
   at the same time as the presidential one, Kenyans sent a clear message
   of disgust with corruption and cronyism. Oranges won 95 of the 210
   contested seats, more than twice as many as Mr Kibaki's Party of
   National Unity; half of Mr Kibaki's cabinet lost their seats. Yet
   several of his new ministers are widely regarded as some of the most
   venal of the old guard; several have been threatened with travel bans
   to the European Union, including Britain, because of corruption
   allegations.

   Among those thought to be encouraging Mr Kibaki to give no ground are
   John Michuki, who previously ran internal security and is now in
   charge of roads, and George Saitoti, who goes from education to handle
   internal security. Mr Michuki was involved in attempts during Mr
   Kibaki's first term to use foreign mercenaries to stop local media
   from publishing some stories to do with organised crime. This pair's
   prominence suggests that Mr Kibaki is ready to use repression to stay
   in power.

   Mr Kibaki has also failed to break with his discredited predecessor,
   Daniel arap Moi, three of whose sons lost their seats in parliament:
   Mr Kibaki has put several of Mr Moi's favourites into the cabinet,
   including Uhuru Kenyatta, a son of Kenya's founding president. He has
   also named Kalonzo Musyoka, a Kamba, who came a distant third in the
   presidential race, as vice-president, in the hope of winning his
   party's much-needed votes in parliament.

   The Daily Nation, Kenya's biggest newspaper, reckons that it has been
   the country's darkest period since independence in 1963. The violence
   has not ceased since the election result. The tension has been
   worsened by incendiary text messages, such as one that falsely said a
   busload of Luo women and children had been blown up by Kikuyus in
   western Kenya.

   The security forces can barely cope without resorting to violence.
   There were too few to contain opposition protesters peacefully in
   Nairobi in the days after the poll--but enough to gun them down. "No
   Raila, no peace," went the standard chant that has landed a number of
   Orange supporters in prison. Protesters near the smart Yaya shopping
   mall, a mile or so from central Nairobi, seemed poised to loot the
   building. A few started throwing stones at its windows, while others
   pulled petrol bombs out of sisal sacks. Hot-heads spoke of taking
   their fight against Mr Kibaki to the bush in a war of liberation.
   "Have you ever seen someone cut up, the legs here, the head over
   there?" asked a youth brandishing a rusty spanner. "That's what we'll
   do to the Kikuyus." Just as gunfire threatened to break out, William
   Ruto, an Orange leader, persuaded the mob to back down.

   The violence spreads

   For days, Nairobi's slums were sealed off by security forces, causing
   widespread hunger. In Kibera, on the city's south side, what little
   food there was reached prices the poor could not possibly afford.
   Children collapsed under barrages of tear-gas. There was not enough
   water to wash their eyes. Corpses lay unclaimed in the fetid dust,
   some shot, others slashed. Ethnic cleansing went on despite the siege.
   Thousands of Kikuyus fled their tiny shacks, escaping through the
   nearby Ngong forest with dirty bundles of meagre possessions to take
   refuge in Nairobi's showground beyond. Kikuyus trying to enter Kibera
   were dragged out and beaten up by Luos.

   The violence was, if anything, worse upcountry, where gangs of young
   men from the Kalenjin group turned on their Kikuyu neighbours in the
   Rift Valley. Many of the deaths there, including the burning to death
   of Kikuyus in a church, occurred in and around the town of Eldoret,
   whose Kikuyus fled, taking buses or lorries south to Nakuru, under
   government protection.

   The conspicuously quietest bit of the country has been the Kikuyu
   highlands stretching up north of Nairobi to the slopes of Mount Kenya.
   About 97% of Central Province's voters were officially said to have
   plumped for Mr Kibaki. In mainly Kikuyu towns such as Thika, Luos
   working in government offices have fled. "We are not sure if they will
   come back," says the district commissioner. "The situation is worst in
   the coffee estates and isolated farms. We can't offer protection
   there."

   Poorer Luos still working in Thika live harmoniously with other tribes
   in makeshift settlements on the edge of the town. "We don't say
   anything too loud," says a young Luo. "The problem is the Kikuyus are
   too arrogant. They feel they have a right to rule." Unsurprisingly,
   the Kikuyu view is different. "We're civilised and they are not," says
   a Kikuyu mini-bus driver in the market-place, to applause from his
   friends.

   So far the instability has cost the country $1 billion, says the
   finance ministry. The cost of borrowing abroad is likely to rise, the
   overvalued Kenyan shilling will fall, tourism has already been badly
   hit and foreign aid may be cut back. Planned privatisations will get
   greater scrutiny; some may falter. There may not be enough money to
   keep Mr Kibaki's promise of free secondary education for all. But
   breaking it would sorely undermine him.

   Kenya's neighbours are being hurt too. Several, such as south Sudan
   and Uganda are landlocked, so rely on Kenya's roads and its port of
   Mombasa for their trade to the outside world. Uganda is particularly
   jittery. Its president, Yoweri Museveni, wants Kenyan troops to
   protect oil en route to the Ugandan border and says Uganda must build
   its own oil terminal to lessen its dependency on Mombasa. While
   Kenya's big men refuse to compromise, the country's reputation as a
   beacon of stability in a sea of regional turbulence is in tatters.


   Jacob Zuma, presidential hopeful

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

                                                                Party man


   ONCE his country's deputy president, Jacob Zuma has had a rough few
   years. He was sacked by President Thabo Mbeki in 2005 after his
   financial adviser, Schabir Shaik, was convicted of fraud and
   corruption. The following year he was tried for rape. He was
   acquitted, but then faced charges of fraud and corruption. The case
   was kicked out of court, but the National Prosecuting Authority may
   still have another go. The veteran political leader has been ridiculed
   and vilified, written off by many as politically finished or unfit to
   rule.

   All this would have buried the career of many other politicians. Yet,
   surprisingly, Mr Zuma, who is still deputy leader of the ruling
   African National Congress (ANC) party, remains a front-runner to win
   the presidency of the party in elections due in December. That would
   make him a virtual shoo-in to be South Africa's next president when Mr
   Mbeki goes in 2009.

   His home in a rich, formerly all-white neighbourhood of Johannesburg
   feels as laid back as the man himself appears. Local music plays in
   the background and people casually come in and out. A portrait of
   himself painted on a goat skin towers over the room from the
   mezzanine. Wearing an elegant suit and laughing often, Mr Zuma is
   engaging without being familiar, as well as articulate and imposing.
   Yet for all the friendliness, the bruises of the past few years show;
   he offers guarded and careful answers.

   Unlike many ANC leaders, Mr Zuma, born into a very poor family in
   KwaZulu Natal, received little formal education. By 15 he was taking
   odd jobs to help his widowed mother make ends meet. This, added to his
   years as a political prisoner and an exile in Zambia, Swaziland and
   Mozambique during apartheid, partly explains his popularity among the
   ANC rank-and-file. He is at home among ordinary South Africans, who
   feel he is one of them. His ease in crowds and at rallies has often
   been compared favourably to the stiff and cerebral style of Mr Mbeki.

   Mr Zuma joined the ANC in the late 1950s, still a teenager, and rose
   through the ranks to become head of intelligence when the party was
   underground. His ability to listen and bring people together was
   instrumental in putting an end to violence between the ANC and the
   largely Zulu Inkatha Freedom Party in the 1990s. He successfully
   applied the same negotiating skills in Burundi a few years later.

   But then there are the scandals. An investigation relating to a
   government arms deal from the late 1990s still hangs over him. The
   lengthy saga has so far not translated into a trial that could either
   confirm the accusations or put them to rest. Mr Zuma argues that this
   is unfair, and attributes much of his support within the ANC to the
   way he has been treated. Critics argue that the more recent Shaik case
   and the rape trial have highlighted, at best, serious lapses of
   judgement. Most damaging was his admission in court that he had had
   unprotected sex with an HIV-positive woman, and had then taken a
   shower to limit the risks of infection. This was met with outrage and
   disbelief by many, especially as Mr Zuma had headed the government's
   official anti-AIDS campaign.

   Mr Zuma believes that the court cases in themselves have not tarnished
   his reputation with supporters, but that the media have damaged his
   image with the broader public. "They have deliberately made a joke out
   of me," he says bitterly. His most ardent supporters, to be found
   within an eclectic crowd of disgruntled ANC and trade-union members,
   go one step further and maintain that he is the victim of a political
   conspiracy.

   More worrying is whether Mr Zuma's primary political talent is to say
   whatever people want to hear, regardless of consequences. He was
   accused of gay-bashing for comments he made during a speech about
   traditional Zulu values. He said he was misunderstood and apologised.
   There are also concerns that the support Mr Zuma enjoys from trade
   unions and the left of the ANC could lead to a shift in economic
   policy were he to become president. But for all his apparent
   outspokenness and gregariousness, the ANC deputy president is, above
   all, a disciplined party man. "When the ANC decides, the party view
   becomes my view," he says, before adding that "One critical thing in
   the ANC is unity and collective leadership." A recent ANC policy
   conference broadly endorsed the current government's economic
   direction, which has underpinned good macroeconomic performance.

   This may explain why business circles do not seem too worried about
   the prospect of a Zuma presidency. It may also be true that many do
   not believe he will be South Africa's next president. The ANC branches
   are about to start debating their choice of nominee for the party
   leadership. Mr Zuma dismisses questions over whether he would accept a
   nomination, but characteristically argues that he has never refused
   any job that the ANC has asked him to do.


   Syria is finding it hard to cope with the flood of refugees from Iraq

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

                                                       Damascene survival


   "DO YOU have a job?" and "What are you doing at the moment?" are
   leading questions on the whiteboard in an English lesson at an Iraqi
   refugee community centre in Sayyida Zaynab, a suburb on the edge of
   Syria's capital, Damascus. The students can expect more such requests
   for personal data in the coming weeks as the Syrian government and the
   UN carry out a census to count those who have fled from neighbouring
   Iraq.

   Syria has taken in the lion's share of Iraq's refugees, about 1.5m of
   them, of whom well over half are probably Sunni, some 15% Shia and
   maybe 10% Christian. Jordan is thought to account for another 600,000
   or so, but no one knows exactly. The Syrian survey will assess the
   needs of the refugees--and their effect on the host country, which has
   19m of its own citizens. Many refugees are running out of savings,
   slipping into poverty, sometimes into crime and prostitution.

   The count will be difficult. If they were all in camps, it would be
   easier, says Kristele Younes of Refugees International. "It's the
   first time in the UN's history that there's been an urban crisis of
   such huge proportions," she says. "They are people who are very
   difficult to `see'. They speak Arabic and look pretty similar [to
   Syrians]. It's almost a ghost population."

   In Sayyida Zaynab, near a Shia shrine to Zaynab, the Prophet
   Muhammad's granddaughter, the streets teem with Iraqis. Shops have
   been taken over by Iraqis, restaurants such as the Bakery Bagdady
   [sic] sell Iraqi specialities unknown to Syrians, and travel agents
   offer trips to the border for 500 Syrian pounds ($10). Some 350,000
   Iraqis may have moved into this area alone, putting a strain on water
   and electricity supplies as well as on schools.

   The Syrian Arab Red Crescent, together with the Office of the UN High
   Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), has opened a clinic to cope with
   the influx of sick Iraqis. Inside, the waiting area is packed. Dr
   Akram al-Hasani, a Syrian orthopaedic surgeon, is examining a Basra
   man still suffering from an arm wound after being shot four years ago.
   "We have many trauma victims," he says. "And a large proportion of
   children with congenital problems, more than among Syrians."

   In the mainly Christian district of Jaramana, a clinic at the Deir
   Ibrahim Khalil convent has an equally wide range of problems.
   "Depression, depression, depression," says Sister Malekeh, a Greek
   Catholic nun. "It's very sad. Now we have a psychiatrist who started
   two months ago. Before they didn't accept it and wouldn't come to the
   clinic, but now they have started to come."

   In a census in 1987, there were said to be 1.4m Christians in Iraq. In
   the 1990s, the figure shrank to 1m or so. After Saddam Hussein's
   demise, they began to be targeted, mainly by Sunni groups linked to
   al-Qaeda, so most have now fled. An Anglican churchman says that some
   1.25m Iraqi Christians now live outside Iraq, with about 250,000 left
   behind.

   International aid workers are queuing up to work in Syria, to relieve
   the burden on the UN agencies and on the Red Crescent. Eight
   charities, including Islamic Relief and the Norwegian and Danish
   Refugee Councils, have been negotiating for months to start projects.
   The foreign ministry has given its approval, but they must work under
   the umbrella of the local Red Crescent, which has been slow to reach
   agreement with the various groups. The Ministry for Social Affairs and
   Labour, which oversees local NGOs, says that Syrian ones should work
   mainly for Syrians.

   Moreover, Syrian attitudes to Iraqis are hardening, as the numbers
   overwhelm local services. The government also worries about the cost
   of providing the extra population with heavily subsidised bread, fuel
   and other goods.

   The UNHCR has managed to register only 135,000 refugees, a fraction of
   those who have arrived. And they are still trickling in, despite new
   rules that have in effect closed the border. Only certain favoured
   categories of applicants, such as lorry drivers, businessmen,
   academics and engineers, are now being allowed in, with occasional
   exceptions for the sick.


                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   America agonises over the pitfalls of staying in Iraq--and of leaving


   "AMERICA is between two fires. If it stays in Iraq, it will bleed to
   death; if it leaves, it will lose everything." So said Ayman
   al-Zawahiri, Osama bin Laden's deputy, in 2004. If he is right, can
   America extract itself from this trap?

   When America's senior commander in Iraq, General David Petraeus, and
   its ambassador in Baghdad, Ryan Crocker, brief Congress on the state
   of the war from September 10th onwards, they will find a capital
   divided. Much of Congress has decided that the war is lost and the
   troops should be brought home. Others believe that General Petraeus's
   "surge" is starting to work and that the politicians are in danger of
   losing a war the army is beginning to win.

   More than four years on, "winning" can of course no longer mean what
   the architects of the 2003 invasion hoped for. President George Bush
   aimed not only to rid Iraq of its weapons of mass destruction (WMD)
   but also to liberate it from dictatorship and create a pro-Western
   democracy in the heart of the Arab world.

   These high hopes have burned to ash. Saddam is dead and Iraqis voted
   freely in 2005 for their present government. But there were no WMD,
   the government is in chaos and the country is ravaged by violence.
   Under occupation Iraq has become both a recruiting-sergeant and a
   training ground for al-Qaeda. The civilian death toll is contested,
   but almost certainly exceeds 100,000. More than 3,700 American
   soldiers (and nearly 300 other coalition soldiers) have died. The
   serious debate is therefore not between victory or defeat but over how
   to mitigate the consequences of a disaster that has already taken
   place.

   The violence in Iraq is not distributed evenly. In the north the Kurds
   have carved out an autonomous and largely peaceful enclave (see
   [4]article) although there is potentially explosive conflict over the
   status of Kirkuk. In the four south-eastern provinces most violence
   has been either directed at the small British garrison in the port
   city of Basra, or is part of a turf fight between Shia militias such
   as the Badr brigade and the Mahdi army, both affiliated to Shia
   political blocks in parliament.

   General Petraeus's surge of recent months has not aimed at these
   areas, but has concentrated on Baghdad and the intensely violent
   centre of the country. There, at least three overlapping wars are
   raging. One consists of attacks by the jihadists of al-Qaeda against
   the Americans, government forces and Shia civilians. Another is a
   sectarian war between Sunnis and Shias. Last, many Sunnis and Shias
   alike attack the Americans simply because they are seen as unwanted
   foreign occupiers. A poll in September 2006 found that 92% of Sunnis
   and 62% of Shias approved of such attacks.

   The surge is not only a reinforcement but also, more important, a
   change of tactics. General Petraeus has deployed some 30,000 extra
   troops, bringing the grand total to about 160,000. More significant
   has been the new plan. Under General George Casey, General Petraeus's
   predecessor, the aim was to put Iraq's army in charge of security. Now
   the Americans have taken charge of protecting Iraq's civilians
   themselves. Instead of moving on after pacifying a neighbourhood, only
   for insurgents to return in their wake, they stay put.

   Is the surge working? The answer is in the eye of the beholder. In an
   interview in the Australian on August 31st, General Petraeus said the
   new approach had made his soldiers "pursuers instead of defenders",
   putting al-Qaeda "off-balance at the very least". He said the number
   of sectarian killings in Baghdad had fallen by August to a quarter of
   its December level, and the number of weapons-cache finds had doubled.
   He called al-Qaeda "enemy number one", because its mass murders had
   ignited sectarian violence. But Iran's "malign involvement" in arming
   and directing Shia militias was also a problem.

   In a separate assessment of progress, the authors of America's
   National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) said in August that there had
   been "measurable but uneven" improvements in security. The report,
   approved by 16 intelligence agencies, concluded that a previously
   steep escalation in violence had been checked. If robust
   counter-insurgency operations continued, said the NIE, security would
   improve modestly in the next six to 12 months, but overall violence
   would remain high.

   Two influential Washington think-tankers who visited Iraq in
   July--Michael O'Hanlon and Kenneth Pollack of the Brookings
   Institution--returned somewhat upbeat. They concluded that the surge
   had improved security and economic conditions in areas where General
   Petraeus had concentrated his forces. The Americans were working
   alongside Iraqi units that seemed more competent and less sectarian
   than before. But a commission headed by James Jones, a retired marine
   general, told Congress this week that the army's effectiveness was
   "limited", the interior ministry "dysfunctional" and the police
   riddled with sectarianism.

   A stroke of luck in Anbar

   Even the reports of modest progress need to be read with the utmost
   caution. That is because the single best bit of news is a stroke of
   luck that probably had little to do with General Petraeus's surge and
   may not last. In some Sunni-dominated provinces, especially Anbar,
   local tribal leaders who previously supported al-Qaeda have been
   repelled by the high-handed brutality of the foreign jihadists and are
   now working with the Americans. Last year, al-Qaeda controlled wide
   areas of Anbar and American officers deemed the province lost. Now it
   is one of the safer parts of Iraq.

   On September 3rd Mr Bush paid a surprise visit to an American base in
   Anbar, citing the province as proof that "success is possible".
   Besides posing for photos, he met Iraq's prime minister, Nuri
   al-Maliki, and local sheikhs. "The people of this province are seeing
   that standing up to the extremists is the path to a better life," said
   Mr Bush. To the people of Anbar and Iraq, he promised that "America
   does not abandon our friends." Addressing the audience back home, he
   said that "if the kind of success we are now seeing continues, it will
   be possible to maintain the same level of security with fewer American
   forces."

   The turnaround in Anbar is real. The question is how durable it is.
   Anthony Cordesman, of the Centre for Strategic and International
   Studies, returned from a visit in July convinced that the Sunnis who
   had been fighting American forces were now willing to work alongside
   the Shia-dominated government if offered money, status and a share of
   power. The authors of the NIE are less optimistic. They say Sunni
   resistance to al-Qaeda has not yet turned into support for the
   government or a willingness to work with the Shias.

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                                 Her window on the future

   Nor, understandably, does the government yet trust these potential new
   allies. In August seven American soldiers approaching the end of their
   tour in Iraq published an op-ed article in the New York Times that
   cast doubt on claims of progress. It was true that armed Sunni tribes
   had become American allies. "But the enduring question is where their
   loyalties would lie in our absence. The Iraqi government finds itself
   working at cross-purposes with us on this issue because it is
   justifiably fearful that Sunni militias will turn on it should the
   Americans leave."

   Another reason for caution is that even if the Sunni change of heart
   keeps al-Qaeda off balance, jihadist attacks make up only one of those
   three Iraqi wars. The surge has yet to dampen down the civil war
   between Sunnis and Shias. Despite the drop General Petraeus points to
   in Baghdad's death toll, Sunnis are still being hounded out of mixed
   neighbourhoods--often by the national police and the interior
   ministry, which are riddled with Shia militias. The third war
   continues, too. Even as America tries to reduce sectarian violence,
   its soldiers still come under attack by Sunnis and Shias alike.

   At the start of his new mission, General Petraeus made it clear that
   military means alone could not deliver success. Politics would have to
   play its part. But Iraq's sectarian parties have not agreed to share
   power and wealth in a way that might draw the conflict's poison.
   America's Congress has set out a series of "benchmarks" for Iraq's
   government, such as ensuring that the oil-poor Sunni provinces get a
   fair share of revenues and letting former Baathists back into
   government jobs. But Congress's Government Accountability Office
   reported this week that, of 18 benchmarks, Iraq had met only three in
   full and four in part. The NIE's assessment is that over the next six
   to 12 months Mr Maliki's government will become even more precarious
   as sectarian splits deepen.

   In Anbar Mr Bush raised the prospect of withdrawing some troops, but
   only "based on a calm assessment by our military commanders on the
   conditions on the ground--not a nervous reaction by Washington
   politicians." The calm General Petraeus later confirmed in a TV
   interview that some scaling back of the surge was probable. This,
   however, was always expected. America's ground forces are under
   unprecedented strain, and the longer the extra troops stay the more
   the generals worry that the all-volunteer army will "break". Frontline
   units are already serving their third or fourth battle tours, and
   their deployments have been extended to 15 months with only a year at
   home to recuperate (British forces serve six-month tours, with two
   years at home). Continuing the surge beyond next spring would mean
   either extending tours beyond 15 months, or calling up more soldiers
   from the National Guard and reserves, or both.

   The election at home

   American politicians are hardly less divided than Iraq's. With only 14
   months until the next election, polls matter. Mr Bush will never have
   to face the voters again, but the other players in Washington--members
   of Congress and candidates for the presidency--think of little else.

   Most Democrats in Congress want to pull America out of Iraq as soon as
   is practical. Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, spoke for many
   earlier this year when he said the war was lost. In theory, Congress
   can force a pull-out by denying Mr Bush the funds to continue
   fighting. But that is harder than it sounds. For obvious political
   reasons, the Democrats cannot simply cut off the funds that keep
   American soldiers properly supplied and equipped in the field. They
   can try to pass war-funding bills with strings attached--such as a
   demand for withdrawal by a certain date. But they need 60 votes (out
   of 100) in the Senate to get past a Republican filibuster, and they do
   not have them.

   To woo wavering Republicans, some Democrats are elasticating their
   deadlines. Carl Levin, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services
   Committee, who sponsors a bill calling for a withdrawal to begin
   within 120 days, leaving a limited presence by April 30th 2008, says
   he might drop the end-date if that allows the bill to pass. Anti-war
   activists seethe at such compromises, but Democratic leaders in
   Congress retort that they have to be pragmatic.

   For Democrats vying for the party's presidential nomination, the
   calculation is different. To win the nomination, a candidate must
   appeal to the kind of hard-core Democrats who vote in primaries, who
   tend to be furiously anti-war. Some pander without reservation. Bill
   Richardson demands that Congress "de-authorise" the war. John Edwards
   dismissed Mr Bush's trip to Anbar this week as a "photo op" and
   downplayed any progress there by noting that Anbar is "a homogeneous
   area that lacks the ethnic conflict that's plaguing the rest of the
   country." He demanded that Congress confront the president over Iraq:
   "No timeline, no funding. No excuses."

   Others are more circumspect. Hillary Clinton, the favourite to win the
   Democratic nomination, said last month that the new tactics seemed to
   be working in some provinces, such as Anbar. She favours "beginning"
   to bring the troops home, but is careful not to make detailed promises
   that might tie her hands. This may be because she expects to win, and
   to have to oversee America's endgame in Iraq.

   Republican presidential candidates tend to support Mr Bush and the
   surge, but among the big-hitters only John McCain says much about it
   on the campaign trail. Mr McCain called for extra troops long before
   they were sent, so Mr Bush's conversion to his point of view counts as
   a triumph of sorts for the senator from Arizona. But his loud
   association with an unpopular war makes him all but unelectable. His
   main rivals, Rudy Giuliani, Mitt Romney and Fred Thompson, emphasise
   how tough they will be on terrorists but say as little as possible
   about Iraq.

   Run and hope for the best?

   What if America cut its losses and left altogether now? ("Now"
   actually means over the many months, or perhaps a year, it would take
   to remove all its forces, contractors and their paraphernalia.) A few
   advocates of early withdrawal claim that by announcing its departure
   America would galvanise Iraqi politicians into making the painful but
   necessary power-sharing compromises they have so far been able to
   avoid. Barry Posen, director of security studies at the Massachusetts
   Institute of Technology, was arguing more than a year ago that the
   occupation was "infantilising" Iraq's politics. But most advocates of
   leaving acknowledge that conditions in Iraq would probably get worse.

   In December 2006 the Iraq Study Group chaired by James Baker and Lee
   Hamilton suggested that most of America's soldiers could leave by the
   first quarter of 2008, even though a "precipitate" withdrawal could
   lead to more violence, a power vacuum, regional instability and the
   intervention of neighbours. Many independent analysts have since come
   to agree. In February Steven Simon, a former member of America's
   National Security Council, produced a report for the Council on
   Foreign Relations, arguing that since America would not be able to
   stop Iraq's civil wars by staying on, it should announce a plan for a
   "military disengagement" over a period of 12 to 18 months.

   Mr Simon does not expect the violence to become less intense once
   America begins to leave, but thinks a Sunni-Shia military stalemate
   would be a likelier outcome than the wholesale expulsion or genocide
   of the Sunnis. That, he says, is because the Shias show little
   interest in conquering the Sunni areas, and because neither side has
   the aircraft, heavy artillery or armour to reduce cities to rubble and
   so inflict truly massive casualties. But most truly awful recent wars
   (Congo, Rwanda) were fought mainly with small arms. Toby Dodge, a
   well-respected Iraq-watcher at London's International Institute for
   Strategic Studies, has argued that the growing conventional
   wisdom--"run away and hope for the best"--would lead to a lethal
   free-for-all and a collapse into warlordism.

   Needless to say, proponents of early withdrawal do not characterise
   their approach as just hoping for the best. They think that by taking
   care over the timing and manner of its departure America may still be
   able to shape events and diminish the chances of leaving mayhem
   behind. In Mr Simon's plan, for example, America would continue to
   give Iraq aid and training and keep troops nearby so they could
   intervene if a genocide really did unfold. The Centre for American
   Progress proposes a "phased consolidation": American troops would
   withdraw from the most stable bits of Iraq first, to avoid leaving "a
   sudden and immediate power vacuum".

   Such plans may include too much wishful thinking. In June Senator
   Richard Lugar, a senior Republican who believes the war has failed,
   said America ought to leave in a way that prevented Iraq becoming a
   haven for terrorists, safeguarded regional stability, prevented
   Iranian domination of the area and limited the damage to America's
   reputation. That is a lot to ask from a withdrawing army. In Basra,
   the British forces who withdrew this week from the palace to the
   airport found themselves incapable of shaping events in the city once
   their numbers dwindled below the level at which they could impose
   their will on the streets (see [5]article).

   If the main affliction of Iraq is a sectarian civil war, might
   partition be the solution? In his June speech Mr Lugar said that "few
   Iraqis have demonstrated that they want to be Iraqis". With the
   half-exception of the Kurds, however, Iraq does not lend itself to
   neat division. More than half of its population lives in four mixed
   cities, Baghdad, Basra, Mosul and Kirkuk. It is true that if ethnic
   cleansing continues for long enough (a large proportion of its
   minority populations has already been displaced), Iraq may end up
   breaking into Sunni, Shia and Kurdish mini-states. But to produce such
   an outcome by consent would require Iraq's mistrustful politicians to
   make heroic decisions on where to draw borders and how to share the
   oil.

   Mr Lugar's assessment of what Iraqis want may anyway be wrong. A
   series of opinion surveys conducted by Mansoor Moaddel, who is
   affiliated with Eastern Michigan University and the University of
   Michigan Institute for Social Research, has found that Iraqi Arabs, if
   not the Kurds, have a strong sense of national identity. Though
   sectarian conflict is increasing, he says, "It would be a mistake to
   think that this bloodlust represents widespread sentiment among Iraqis
   as a whole. While neither American nor Iraqi security officials have
   yet found a way to tame the militias, the Iraqi public is increasingly
   drawn toward a vision of a democratic, non-sectarian government for
   the country."

   Strategic ju-jitsu

   Almost all advocates of early withdrawal stress the desirability of
   co-operation with Iraq's neighbours. The Baker-Hamilton report said
   that America needed to reach out to Iran and Syria, America's
   adversaries. Since May American diplomats have twice met their Iranian
   counterparts to discuss security in Iraq, but these meetings have so
   far achieved little. The Americans say that Iran is helping its Shia
   allies in Iraq to attack American soldiers. The Iranians deny this but
   make no secret of wanting to humble the superpower in Iraq, if only to
   deter it from attacking them too.

   It has become a commonplace to point out that America's invasion of
   Iraq has strengthened Iran. With Saddam dead and a friendly Shia
   government in Baghdad, the mullahs in Tehran are showing a new
   self-confidence. Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, says
   that America is "stuck in a whirlpool" and sinking deeper. Iran's
   president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, adds that Iran is ready to fill the
   vacuum.

   Even after leaving Iraq America would have strategic interests in the
   energy-rich Middle East. To reassure allies, Mr Bush has beefed up
   American naval forces in the Persian Gulf and promised to provide
   nervous Sunni Arab regimes (and Israel) with dollops of advanced
   weaponry over the coming decade. On top of this the Americans are
   trying to block Iran's fishy-looking nuclear programme by imposing
   economic sanctions, both directly and through the UN Security Council.

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

                    It's been nice knowing you--sort of

   There is another school of thought. Some analysts see Iran as a
   country that is as keen as America to avoid chaos in Iraq and so can
   be enlisted as a helper. William Lind of the Free Congress Foundation
   argues that America should get out and let a pro-Iranian strongman
   such as Muqtada al-Sadr re-establish strong central authority. Such an
   Iraq would not be a pro-American state but it would at least be a
   state. Others advocate an American rapprochement with Iran similar to
   the opening Richard Nixon and Henry Kissinger made to China as cover
   for leaving Vietnam.

   In any such attempt at strategic ju-jitsu, however, America's
   bargaining position will in the end depend on a combination of
   military strength and political will. Mr Bush's message from Anbar
   this week seemed to be that America could escape from its Iraqi trap
   only by making itself look strong again before getting out. General
   Petraeus has to persuade Congress that such a plan is still possible.


   Iraq's Kurdish soldiers have been welcomed in parts of Baghdad

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                                A Kurd with an Iraqi flag


   BRISTLING with weapons, the men arrived on the back of three pick-up
   trucks, then surrounded the modest house in the once "mixed" suburb of
   al-Amel, in western Baghdad. A black-clad gunman jumped down and
   hammered on the thin metal gate. There were "bad people" on the loose,
   he shouted to the residents cowering inside. They should pack up and
   go and live "among your own people--for your own protection". He and
   his men would helpfully put their belongings on the back of the
   trucks. For safety's sake, the family should go immediately. As this
   ultimatum was being given to the terrified Sunni Arab family by the
   Shia gunmen, a group of Iraqi policemen, also Shias, leant on a police
   car and idly puffed away on their cigarettes, just 50 yards up the
   street, indifferent to the crime of sectarian cleansing being
   perpetrated under their noses.

   That scene has become all too common in al-Amel--and in many other
   mixed districts. Since the bombing of the Shias' shrine in Samarra,
   north of Baghdad, in February last year, many mixed and middle-class
   areas have become either mostly Shia or mostly Sunni, depending on
   which side of the main road you live.

   Yet on the occasion described above the Sunni family managed to sit
   tight, in the house they had built some 30 years ago in what was then
   a palm grove. They were saved by the arrival, in the nick of time, of
   a contingent of about 100 Kurdish soldiers, some of the 3,000-odd
   former peshmerga fighters (literally, "those who face death") who have
   joined Iraq's national army and have been controversially deployed in
   Baghdad as part of the "surge" of troops, mainly American ones, to
   beef up security in the bloody capital.

   As they neared the besieged house, the Kurdish soldiers shot over the
   heads of the Shia gunmen, identified by locals as members of the Mahdi
   militia loyal to a Shia firebrand, Muqtada al-Sadr, and told them to
   leave the area. They swiftly complied. There was no American soldier
   in sight.

   It is still too soon to say, three months after the surge began,
   whether it is working. Only about half the promised extra 22,000-plus
   American troops earmarked for Baghdad have arrived. Sectarian murders,
   mainly of Sunnis by Shia militias, are fewer; but bombings, including
   suicide ones, by Sunni- and al-Qaeda-linked insurgents, are more
   frequent. The overall death toll is down a bit but is still horrific.

   But in the mixed areas of the capital where Kurdish troops
   incorporated into the national army have been deployed, residents and
   American officers notice a definite drop in sectarian cleansing and
   violence. People's confidence in the security forces, they say, has
   improved. In al-Amel more shops are opening up again; a semblance of
   normal daily life has resumed. Some expelled Sunni and Shia families,
   though still just a trickle, have returned.

   "The Kurds are welcomed here by the people," says a Sunni Arab in
   al-Amel. "They want to restore order. They are more polite than the
   Americans and not as dangerous as the Shia militias." General Nazir
   Goran, a Kurd who commands an Iraqi army brigade in the capital, says
   that his men have been operating effectively in some of the capital's
   "hot zones", mainly in western Baghdad. But they still feel obliged to
   avoid the areas of eastern Baghdad controlled by the Sadrists.

   In any case, the first loyalty of the Kurds inducted into the national
   army is to their Kurdish homeland and its regional government, not to
   the Iraqi state. Iraqis of all stripes generally reckon that the Iraqi
   army is less under the influence of Shia groups than are the police,
   which have been heavily infiltrated by Shia militiamen. Most army
   recruits are Shias and Kurds; less than a tenth of the officers are
   Sunnis.

   The decision to send Kurdish units of the Iraqi army to Baghdad was
   controversial in Kurdistan. Many Kurds worry that the deployment will
   drag them into the sectarian conflict between Sunni and Shia Arabs.
   Other Kurds say, "It's not our battle." But so far they have been
   welcomed by a surprising number of Iraqi Arabs, even though they have
   often viewed the Kurds as a threat to Iraq's fragile unity.


   Jobs and corruption are the issues in a close-fought contest to be
   president 

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   EVEN by the colourful standards of African politicians, Raila Odinga
   stands out. The son of Kenya's first vice-president, Oginga Odinga, Mr
   Odinga was educated in East Germany and spent six years in solitary
   confinement for his alleged involvement in a 1982 coup that failed to
   topple the president of the day, Daniel arap Moi. Later, Mr Odinga was
   rehabilitated. Enriched by his family's molasses business, he helped
   to defeat Mr Moi in the presidential election of 2002, this time by
   throwing his support behind a coalition led by Mwai Kibaki. Now he is
   campaigning to topple Mr Kibaki and become president himself in the
   election due on December 27th. And because the mirror of Kenyan
   politics reverses everything sooner or later, the retired Mr Moi is
   backing Mr Kibaki.

   Mr Odinga wants to build more roads and modernise Kenya's railways. He
   calls the failure to add an inch of track to the railway system since
   independence from Britain in 1963, "a strong statement about the
   mediocrity with which this country has been run". He is also keen on
   devolution. A recent visit to Wales convinced him that a Welsh-style
   assembly would work for Kenya's regions. As an ethnic Luo, Mr Odinga
   is proud of his friendship with Barack Obama, an American presidential
   candidate whose father was also Luo.

   Still, Mr Odinga makes many queasy. Bankers fret about his Marxist
   youth. Foreign diplomats suspect him of authoritarian tendencies. For
   better or worse, a victory for this ebullient German-speaker would
   certainly upset the cosy country-club politics that have characterised
   Kenya since independence. Although he is rich, he remains an outsider.

   Mr Kibaki, by contrast, is an insider. A minister since 1965, he has a
   reputation for good manners. He enjoys playing golf and reads P.G.
   Wodehouse novels. Despite these gentle pursuits, his health is a
   worry. Some say he is unable to work hard; he occasionally nods off
   while conducting important government business. He rejected a call by
   Mr Odinga for a televised presidential debate. That said, he has
   performed gamely on the campaign trail. He opposes devolution. He has
   the solid backing of the Catholic church and of Kenya's business
   class. Under his presidency, the country is better educated, less
   authoritarian, more prosperous and better connected to the world
   (notably China) than it has ever been.

   On December 18th, in the last test of opinion before the election,
   Steadman, a local polling firm, put Mr Odinga at 45%, against 43% for
   Mr Kibaki and 10% for Kalonzo Musyoka, a former foreign minister and
   born-again Christian who has designs on winning a future presidential
   election. If those numbers hold, Mr Odinga's Orange Democratic
   Movement should also do well in the parliamentary elections, ahead of
   Mr Kibaki's umbrella Party of National Unity. A further threat to Mr
   Kibaki is that he may not achieve the mandatory 25% in five of the
   country's eight provinces, which would disqualify him. He is already
   known to be doing badly in Western, Coast and North-Eastern provinces,
   where he is having to do more campaigning than he wants.

   If Mr Kibaki does lose, it will be because he has not created enough
   jobs. Despite an overvalued Kenyan shilling, tourism and agriculture
   are booming. The economy is growing at about 6% a year, a record. But
   Mr Kibaki has not fulfilled his dream of turning Kenya into an
   industrialised country.

   He may also be punished for his failure to tackle egregious
   corruption, a central pledge from his 2002 victory. His own appointee
   in charge of ethics in the government, John Githongo, was bullied into
   exile after uncovering massive fraud within the government. Mr
   Githongo says that the president first ignored and then "flat-out
   opposed me". Under intense pressure from donors Mr Kibaki removed two
   ministers accused of corruption, only to reappoint them a few months
   later. But there is little expectation that Mr Odinga would do much
   better in this respect. Only Mr Musyoka has set a leader's example by
   making his assets and income public.

   In many ways, the young hold the key. Mr Odinga has a massive lead
   among twenty-somethings. If they bother to vote, change is certain.
   The integrity of the voting process will be tested to breaking point.
   Screaming mobs, mostly of jobless young men, will surely use any
   irregularities to make trouble. Kenyans hope that a fiercely fought
   election will forge a truer democracy, not cause more bloodshed.


   The ruling party's leadership race turns into a depressing duel

                                                  WorldPictureNetwork/EPA

                          WorldPictureNetwork/EPA


   IN MANY democratic countries, party leadership contests are openly
   fought affairs. In South Africa's ruling African National Congress
   (ANC), they have usually been a lot more mysterious. Candidates deny
   they are in the running--so do not debate with one another--and there
   is only one name left on the ballot by the time the party votes. But
   as the ANC meets on December 16th to pick its next leader, a real
   contest is in the offing for the first time in decades. Thabo Mbeki,
   president of both the ANC and the country, and Jacob Zuma, the party's
   vice-president whom Mr Mbeki sacked as the country's deputy president
   in 2005, are vying for the job. The mere fact of an open race should
   be good news. But the two candidates are not.

   Nominations from the party branches put Mr Zuma comfortably ahead, so
   he looks set to win. But Mr Mbeki's camp still hopes to convince
   enough delegates to change their minds. Ministers and other
   heavyweights have been dispatched to the local trenches. Allegations
   of wrongdoing on both sides, from promises of jobs and cash to
   intimidation and shenanigans in the course of nomination, have been
   flying around too. The constitution bars Mr Mbeki from being the
   country's president for a third term after the 2009 general election.
   But if he retains control of the party, he can at least block Mr Zuma
   from following him, as the party's president traditionally becomes its
   candidate to be the country's president.

   However, after 13 years in power, first as Nelson Mandela's deputy and
   then as president, Mr Mbeki's aloof and authoritarian style of
   leadership has alienated many in the party. Parts of the ANC, together
   with the party's communist and trade union allies, are unhappy with
   the government's economic policies, which they criticise as too
   business-friendly and not helpful enough to the country's many poor.
   And they complain that the party's tradition of robust debate has been
   replaced by fear and intolerance. Mr Mbeki's stubbornly weird views on
   HIV/AIDS have also angered many.

   All this has boosted the fortunes of the congenial Mr Zuma, far more
   at ease with the party's rank and file than Mr Mbeki. To allay fears
   that he may be too radical, he has recently been waltzing through
   Asia, Europe and America, telling investors that he supports the
   government's broadly free-market policies. In other words, they have
   nothing to fear if he becomes South Africa's president.

   But Mr Zuma is hardly an ideal candidate. He was sacked in 2005
   following the conviction of his financial adviser for corruption and
   could soon face similar charges himself. He was acquitted of rape in
   2006, but admitted to having unprotected sex with his HIV-positive
   accuser; he said he took a shower to minimise the risks of infection.
   Mr Zuma believes he is the innocent victim of a political conspiracy,
   but his detractors accuse him of saying whatever people want to hear
   and of surrounding himself with shady characters. They still fear that
   he may reverse the undoubted gains of recent years with reckless
   economic policies.

   Unfortunately, hopes for a compromise candidate seem dead. A former
   Robben Island prisoner and successful businessman, Tokyo Sexwale,
   threw his hat in the ring but failed to get much support. He is now
   supporting Mr Zuma. Other credible alternatives, such as Cyril
   Ramaphosa, a former trade unionist and now businessman, have kept
   their heads down.

   Is there no one else?

   The rest of South Africa is watching from the sidelines--and is
   unimpressed. According to local polls taken in the big cities, Mr
   Mbeki's popularity has sunk to 40%, while almost half think that a
   Zuma presidency would be disastrous.

   Whatever happens, it seems that the days are gone when the ANC leader
   simply emerged from a magic circle of party elders. Some ANC voices
   lament this, arguing that the open and public bitterness of the
   current contest is a betrayal of the party's collegial traditions.

   But a more open and competitive leadership race should in theory be a
   step in the right direction for both the party and the country, as the
   official opposition, now led by a white liberal, Helen Zille, is
   unlikely to present much of an electoral challenge for the foreseeable
   future. It is, however, hard to fathom how a party with such a long
   line of remarkable leaders has ended up having to choose between these
   particular alternatives.


   Israelis are enjoying calm and prosperity but worried about the future

   THIS May, Israelis will look back over their country's 60 years of
   history with mixed feelings. To be sure, they (or their parents and
   grandparents) built a state from scratch, and it has prospered
   relative to its neighbours. Israel's GDP per head is around four times
   bigger, at purchasing-power parity, than the Arab world's, even
   including the oil-rich Gulf states, and the country has changed a lot
   more too. Almost gone are national stereotypes like the sunburned,
   sandalled kibbutznik and the family at Tel Aviv's airport arguing with
   a customs official over a mountain of foreign-bought gadgets and
   gifts; they can now buy most of the same stuff at home, even if it
   still costs a bit more.

   Israel has also bounced back from the Palestinians' second intifada,
   which began in 2000 and has gradually died down. The barrier being
   built in the West Bank and an aggressive strategy against Palestinian
   militants have helped, along with a truce, to make suicide bombings a
   rarity. Though a constant drizzle of home-made rockets fired from Gaza
   keeps the residents of nearby Israeli towns living in fear, most other
   Israelis just shrug.

   But although they find the present quite comfortable, it is a long
   time since they felt so unsure about the future. Few expect peace with
   the Palestinians. Tough security measures may keep the human cost to
   Israel down, but more Israelis now realise that their mighty army, so
   good at fighting conventional battles, has no answer to the rockets
   from Gaza or to Hizbullah's well-equipped guerrillas across the border
   in Lebanon, should another war break out like the one in 2006.
   Security hawks alarm Israelis with the prospect of an Iranian nuclear
   bomb as the first real existential threat in Israel's history.
   Israelis with a European parent or grandparent who never thought of
   leaving before have been taking out second passports--just in case.

   They also disagree more and more about what kind of country they want
   to live in. Arab Israelis, a fifth of the citizenry, are reacting to
   decades of discrimination by demanding more rights and recognition as
   a minority. Few feel that the 60th anniversary of the state whose
   birth marked their separation from other Palestinians will be anything
   to celebrate.

   But divisions are widening among Jews too. As the religious population
   expands and a younger, more fundamentalist religious generation comes
   of age, secular and religious Jews are becoming more segregated in
   some areas. Some secular Jews fear becoming a minority. And
   secular-religious conflicts over what the Jewish nature of the state
   should be, as well as what to do with the territories occupied since
   1967, have become ever fiercer.


   Peace in the south, war in the west and poverty amid riches

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                                Bashir the great survivor


   THE presidential pardon given to Gillian Gibbons, a British
   schoolteacher who was briefly jailed for allowing her pupils to name
   the class teddy-bear Muhammad, proves how mature and responsible
   Sudan's government is. Such is the solemn opinion of a senior Sudanese
   official.

   Some Sudanese may join in imagining that their country emerged well
   from the teddy-bear affair (although a few sword-waving hotheads now
   blame the state for failing to defend Islam against such blasphemy).
   But to many in this crisis-prone country, as well as to a hissing
   chorus of Muslim commentators elsewhere, the business looked more like
   an embarrassing symptom of sickly xenophobia or, perhaps, an act of
   base demagoguery. In fact, both views, benign and malevolent, are
   probably true. As with so many other aspects of Africa's biggest and
   most turbulent state, it all depends on how you look at things.

   The Islamist regime of General Omar al-Bashir is brutal. For 15 years
   it pursued a vicious jihad against largely non-Muslim rebels in the
   south, then armed and goaded tribesmen in the west to attack rival
   ethnic groups, generating the Darfur tragedy that has left some
   300,000 people dead. Mr Bashir's inflammatory rhetoric and often
   mulish resistance to humanitarian pleading have made Sudan a pariah,
   at least in the West. His hounding of dissidents, corrupt cronyism,
   lack of interest in the poor and favouritism for the capital at the
   expense of the provinces have hardly made him popular at home, either.

   Yet this same regime signed a treaty in 2005 that ended fighting with
   the south, Africa's longest war. It thereby committed itself to
   sharing power and revenue with foes who are hardly angels themselves,
   and to a democratic transition that could yet prove a model for the
   continent. Furthermore, Mr Bashir's government has retreated from the
   fundamentalist fervour unleashed by his 1989 coup. It is hard to
   imagine another Arab capital hosting Christian revivalist meetings in
   its biggest football stadium, as Khartoum does. Unlike some
   neighbouring dictatorships, Sudan's tolerates a lively press,
   opposition parties and the presence of thousands of foreign aid
   workers. It has also survived longer than any regime since Sudan
   gained independence in 1956.

   That longevity owes much to the way that Mr Bashir has cleverly split
   the differences in his often-divided government. Thus, for instance,
   on Darfur the representatives of the more hardline intelligence and
   security ministries, such as Nafie Ali Nafie, have always wanted a
   military solution regardless of the world's sensibilities. The more
   moderate ministers, such as the vice-president, Ali Osman Taha, argue
   that ending Sudan's diplomatic isolation is more important than
   winning the war. The two wings are ascendant at different times, and
   Mr Bashir oscillates between them. It gives Mr Bashir a useful degree
   of ideological flexibility and keeps Western diplomats nicely
   off-balance as well.

   Some officials readily admit to many mistakes in Darfur, and regret
   the carnage. They point in mitigation to such goodwill gestures as
   granting free admission to state universities for students from
   Darfur, and note that it was the rebel parties, not the government,
   which failed to show up for recent peace talks. Even Western diplomats
   plead that much of what appears to be stalling on, for example, the
   deployment of a UN peacekeeping force, has to do with legitimate
   concerns for maintaining sovereignty. But the bald fact remains that
   Khartoum instigated the killing and continues to obstruct the
   peacekeepers.

   Mr Bashir's survival has also been helped by an economic boom, at
   least in Khartoum. The past five years have seen property prices
   quadruple in the capital, the number of cars double and more companies
   started than in the previous 75 years. Oil revenues are pushing $4
   billion a year and economic growth tops 10%. Even in the destitute
   south, a region virtually devoid of infrastructure, the share of oil
   revenues enjoyed by the Sudan People's Liberation Movement (SPLM), the
   former rebel group that now runs this autonomous region, is larger
   than the national budgets of similar-sized African nations. Yet most
   Sudanese beyond the capital remain dismally poor, and the country's
   natural potential, especially in agriculture, remains hugely
   under-exploited.

   The obstinacy of the government over a few divisive issues presents a
   perpetual risk to the north-south peace accord. In October the SPLM
   pulled its ministers out of the national-unity government. Talks are
   under way to redress their grievances. But if differences linger, and
   the careful schedule that provides for elections in 2009 and a
   referendum on southern independence in 2011 begins to slip much
   further, Sudan could find itself sliding back into a swamp deeper even
   than Darfur's.


   Elections could further destabilise the violent, oil-rich Delta region


   THE seedy drinking-holes frequented by burly foreign oilmen in
   Nigeria's main oil city of Port Harcourt are pretty empty these days.
   Kidnappings and killings of expatriate workers, car-bombs and violent
   robberies have persuaded many to stay behind the high walls and barbed
   wire of their own homes, as armed groups wreak havoc ahead of national
   elections next month.

   In the past year, attacks on oil facilities have forced Nigeria to
   shut down a fifth of its production; over 100 foreign workers have
   been kidnapped in the oil-producing Niger Delta region. Higher
   security costs and a shrinking number of expatriates willing to take
   the risks of working there have sharply slowed new investment. The
   Nigerian government has lost billions of dollars in oil revenues. Now
   the multinational oil companies, such as Royal Dutch Shell, that
   operate in Africa's biggest oil producer are bracing themselves for
   more trouble. The omens are not good; in the run-up to the elections
   in 2003, violence in the Delta forced Nigeria to shut down 40% of its
   oil capacity.

   Trouble in the region is not a new phenomenon, but it has escalated in
   the past year or so. For years, impoverished communities in the
   tropical swamplands of the Delta protested against exploitation of
   their lands by oil companies, only to be suppressed by the army.
   Things got worse under civilian rule in the late 1990s, when
   politicians armed local thugs to rig elections for them. After the
   2003 elections, many of these bully-boys used their guns in
   territorial squabbles in the mangrove creeks. But they also began to
   espouse a radical political rhetoric as well, demanding a greater
   share of the oil-wealth for their local communities. In the cities,
   criminal gangs, born from secretive university fraternities, were
   armed in a similar way.

   Militant cells and gang leaders are engaged in a variety of criminal
   enterprises, building up arsenals of weapons with the proceeds and
   sometimes working with corrupt army officials. The theft of crude oil
   from sophisticated oil pipelines and wells (known as "bunkering") has
   become a multi-million-dollar industry. Worryingly, the Movement for
   the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND), the mysterious group
   responsible for the most troubling attacks on the oil industry last
   year, has been trying to bridge the gap between militants in the
   creeks, with their machine-guns and rocket-launchers, and the criminal
   gangs in the cities, armed with lighter Kalashnikov rifles.

   On January 28th MEND stormed a police complex in Port Harcourt,
   freeing 125 criminals, including Soboma George, an influential gang
   leader who had once been used to help rig state elections for the
   ruling party. MEND's anonymous leader and spokesman boasts that he has
   "the oil industry by the balls". On March 15th, after releasing its
   latest two hostages, presumably for a nice ransom, MEND promised to
   step up its attacks.

   But many groups falling under the broad banner of MEND have local
   agendas and a variety of paymasters. Some have been enraged by the
   choice of gubernatorial candidates put up by the ruling People's
   Democratic Party (PDP) which may well cheat, rig and bribe its way
   into hanging onto power in the Delta State Houses in April's
   elections. The richest oil-producing states have revenues of up to
   $1.3 billion a year but dismal records in providing basic services,
   since officials loot most of the money. The fear is that militants
   could work alone or with MEND to disrupt elections in the Delta states
   and launch attacks on the oil industry as a way of holding the PDP
   state and federal governments to ransom. "Either bodies are going to
   pile up or we are going to see an oil shock, or both," says an
   oil-industry security official.

   The PDP candidate for president, Umaru Yar'Adua, a northern state
   governor, says that by picking as his running-mate Goodluck Jonathan,
   from the Delta's majority tribe, the Ijaw, he will be able to tackle
   the region's problems. Should he become vice-president, Mr Jonathan
   will be under pressure to deliver quick results to his people if he
   wants to stave off yet more violence and unrest in his land.


   A doughty fighter of corruption is sent away for re-education 


   NIGERIANS are painfully aware of how much corruption has cost their
   country--over $400 billion, according to official estimates. That is
   the equivalent of about two-thirds of all the aid given to the whole
   of Africa since the 1960s, and more than anything else explains why
   most people in this oil-rich country still live in poverty.

   Yet in recent years the government had started a belated fight against
   corruption. And if one man has become the symbol of that campaign it
   is the crusading young head of the Economic and Financial Crimes
   Commission (EFCC), Nuhu Ribadu. Since 2003, Mr Ribadu has attained
   almost mythic status among his countrymen by charging and prosecuting
   the politicians, and particularly the state governors, who are
   responsible for most of the fraud and looting of public funds. For the
   first time, he gave Nigerians hope that their country could actually
   be different. So the news on December 27th that Mr Ribadu is being
   forced to resign on a technicality has caused deep dismay among his
   supporters. It is also very worrying for the future of Africa's most
   populous country.

   In short, Mr Ribadu finally got too close to the top. His
   anti-corruption agency, once accused of prosecuting only the
   government's political foes, has under the new president, Umaru
   Yar'Adua, been pursuing the former state governors who lost their
   immunity from prosecution after leaving office last May. He had some
   big successes. The EFCC has arrested seven governors, including two of
   the most notorious, Ayo Fayose of Ekiti State and James Ibori of Delta
   State, both of whom spent Christmas in prison. Another round of
   arrests was planned for early January.

   The prosecution of Mr Ibori was the boldest. The former governor of
   the oil-rich Delta State received a salary of less than $25,000 a
   year. Last August a court in London ordered a freeze on $35m of his
   worldwide assets. Despite this, he was thought to be untouchable in
   Nigeria because of his political connections. He is a prominent leader
   of the ruling People's Democratic Party and was a major funder of Mr
   Yar'Adua's election campaign. So when Mr Ibori was arrested on
   December 12th many Nigerians gasped--and then cheered. Among other
   charges against him was an attempted $15m bribe of the EFCC to drop
   the case against him. "He didn't realise that it was being recorded,"
   said a commission official.

   It was also the arrest of Mr Ibori, however, that tipped the scales
   against Mr Ribadu. Two weeks later came the announcement that Mr
   Ribadu would have to resign to attend a one-year course of study at
   the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies in Jos.
   Technically, a man of Mr Ribadu's senior rank has to have done this as
   part of his qualifications; the head of the police said that the
   "transfer" was only to make Mr Ribadu "a better officer". In fact, Mr
   Ribadu could probably teach the course himself; the former president,
   Olusegun Obasanjo, did not insist on it. In any case, few are in any
   doubt as to the real reason for Mr Ribadu's sudden obligation to go
   back to school. Nervous former state governors pressured--and
   blackmailed--Mr Yar'Adua into letting the police chief sack Mr Ribadu
   to spare them any more prosecutions.

   For, right now, Mr Yar'Adua needs all the political support he can
   get. The president is soon to face a legal challenge to his own
   election in a tribunal. He cannot afford to lose friends--and the
   ex-governors are among the strongest in his People's Democratic Party.
   They also have the president's ear because several of them, not least
   Mr Ibori, could probably produce damning evidence of the widespread
   election rigging that brought the president to office.

   Yet sidelining the head of the EFCC in this way is terrible news for
   Nigeria. The commission is popular--the second most trusted
   institution in the country, according to a 2007 poll. The agency's
   more than 200 convictions over four years have resurrected
   international confidence in the country. With a soaring stockmarket,
   investors have poured into Nigeria in the hope that the country was at
   last getting on top of its problems, such as corruption. Now some of
   that progress is at risk.

   For Mr Ribadu, there may still be a way out. He could resign. Or he
   could refuse to go until the orders come directly from the president.
   That would leave room for Mr Yar'Adua to back down, and save himself
   as well. But if Mr Ribadu is forced out, as Chris Albin-Lackey of
   Human Rights Watch, a lobby group, puts it, "the message is
   unmistakable. The credibility of the EFCC and the president, someone
   who is genuinely interested in fighting corruption, will be
   destroyed."


   The opposition's surprising acceptance of Robert Mugabe's latest
   clever move

   ROBERT MUGABE appears once again to have wrong-footed those who have
   been trying to oust him. Britain's prime minister, Gordon Brown, is
   trying to prevent Zimbabwe's president from attending a much-heralded
   summit meeting of the African Union and the European Union in
   December. Mr Brown says he will not attend if Mr Mugabe does. But it
   seems clear that most African governments will stay away if Mr Mugabe
   is excluded. Portugal, the summit's host, is apparently likely to bow
   to African pressure and hold the summit whether or not Mr Brown shows
   up. And British officials hint that even if Mr Brown stayed away,
   other ministers would almost certainly attend.

   Better still for Mr Mugabe, both factions of Zimbabwe's divided
   opposition, the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), have recently
   sided with the ruling party, ZANU-PF, endorsing some controversial
   constitutional amendments that may well strengthen its grip. This has
   dismayed many of the lobbies--human-rights campaigners, churches,
   women's groups and so on--that usually back the MDC, further
   fracturing an already crumbly opposition.

   The amendments proposed by the ruling party allow Parliament, which is
   dominated by ZANU-PF, to choose a successor if the president steps
   down or dies before the end of his term. Simultaneous parliamentary
   and presidential elections look set for March 2008. Seats in the lower
   house will increase from 150 to 210, and constituencies will be
   redrawn. This will favour rural areas, where ZANU-PF's grip is tighter
   than in the towns. The ruling party gave ground by agreeing to limit
   the president's power to appoint some members of parliament; a
   supposedly revamped electoral commission will be in charge of
   redrawing constituencies.

   Until now, the MDC had strongly opposed the amendments on the ground
   that they would entrench the ruling party ahead of the election. The
   MDC had insisted on a new constitution, the repeal of repressive
   security and media laws, and for Zimbabwe's diaspora, thought to be
   more than 3m-strong, to be allowed to vote. Some pro-reform
   organisations are aghast at the MDC'S reversal. The National
   Constitutional Assembly, a lobby that for a decade has called for a
   new constitution, accuses its former ally of treachery.

   For its part, the MDC calls its volte-face a confidence-building
   gesture. It has been talking to ZANU-PF under the auspices of Thabo
   Mbeki, South Africa's president, who was asked in March by the
   14-country Southern African Development Community (SADC) to help solve
   Zimbabwe's crisis. Behind its official policy of united support for Mr
   Mugabe, the regional grouping is divided. The British say that a
   change of mood was noticeable at the latest SADC summit, in Lusaka in
   August, and that countries like Tanzania and even Namibia that were
   previously loth to challenge Mr Mugabe have begun to see his refusal
   to budge as damaging the whole region.

   So SADC has hailed the constitutional deal as a breakthrough.
   Enthusiasts point to reports that ZANU-PF may relax (though not
   repeal) the media and security laws and work towards a new
   constitution--at some stage. Some also argue that letting Mr Mugabe in
   effect pick his successor would make him likelier to step down.
   Negotiations between his party and the MDC continue, but it is unclear
   whether Mr Mugabe's lot will make serious concessions.

   Divide and rule

   The opposition is weaker than ever. It has been unable to stir up the
   millions of victims of Zimbabwe's economic catastrophe. The MDC
   faction headed by Arthur Mutambara said in July that attempts to unite
   the party and field a single presidential candidate had failed. He
   denounced Morgan Tsvangirai, the party's founder and head of the other
   faction, as "weak and indecisive". Meanwhile, many of the party's
   mostly urban supporters have left the country: in all, a quarter of
   the population may have gone. The MDC's allies look weak too. A recent
   strike call by the Congress of Trade Unions was largely ignored. Other
   groups' efforts to hold marches and protests have fizzled; people have
   long been cowed by the beatings and arrests routinely inflicted by the
   regime.

   Despite reports that the latest registration of voters was badly
   flawed, Mr Mbeki and some of his fellow leaders in the region are keen
   for next year's elections to be deemed reasonably fair, after which
   they hope that Mr Mugabe will step down and ZANU-PF will draw one of
   the MDC factions, probably the one led by Mr Mutambara rather than Mr
   Tsvangirai, into a coalition. That, they hope, will pave the way to an
   internationally-backed recovery. Whether Mr Mugabe is contemplating
   such a scenario is another matter.


                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

   While things are getting better in much of Africa, Ethiopia risks
   getting left behind


   AS AMERICA surveys the map of eastern Africa, it finds little to take
   comfort from. Somalia is in anarchy, riven by competing warlords and a
   haven for Islamist militants. Sudan is involved in the bloody
   suppression of blacks in its western region, Darfur. Both countries
   are deaf to outside complaints and seem chronically unstable. America
   is thinking of putting Eritrea, briefly a beacon of hope after it
   split from Ethiopia in 1993, on its list of countries that sponsor
   terrorism. But between that grim trio stands Ethiopia, America's hope.

   This ancient country has become an essential ally of America in the
   "war on terror". Last year Ethiopia invaded Somalia in support of a
   UN-backed transitional federal government, which had been threatened
   with jihad by the Union of Islamic Courts (UIC) that had taken over
   Mogadishu, the capital. The Americans joined in, giving vital
   intelligence, to catch al-Qaeda people whom the UIC was sheltering.
   These men, it believed, were responsible for the bombings of the
   American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998, killing more than
   220 people.

   The West and Ethiopia are co-operating closely against the Islamist
   threat in the Horn of Africa, which threatens the coast of Kenya and
   Tanzania as well. It is alleged that Ethiopia is a destination for
   prisoners interrogated under the CIA's "extraordinary rendition"
   programme. Certainly the Bush administration has been unstinting in
   its praise of Meles Zenawi, the prime minister. It has also vilified
   Ethiopia's neighbour and mortal enemy, Eritrea, which it accuses,
   among other things, of arming and funding the Somali Islamists.

   Mr Zenawi won the West's friendship, too, for his efforts to tackle
   Ethiopia's deep poverty. These have met with some success--so much so
   that Tony Blair has put Mr Zenawi in the vanguard of an "African
   Renaissance". But Ethiopia's upward track as development poster-child
   and dependable ally was rudely interrupted in 2005. That year's
   presidential and parliamentary elections were marred by mass killings
   on the streets of the capital. Police fired on opposition supporters
   and others who were protesting against what they claimed were rigged
   elections. Tens of thousands, including journalists and NGO workers as
   well as opposition activists, were rounded up in a general dragnet;
   many spent weeks, or months, in prison without charge. Opposition
   leaders were accused of hugely inflated crimes, such as high treason
   and genocide. Seventy-one of them were freed only last summer, after
   having to sign a letter admitting their part in inciting violent
   protests.

   These events shattered the West's cosy image of the modernising,
   progressive Mr Zenawi. Appalled Western governments abruptly switched
   off direct financial support to the Ethiopian government, though aid
   has been resumed through indirect channels. And an anti-Zenawi lobby,
   largely funded by the big Ethiopian diaspora in America, now issues a
   stream of anti-government criticism from the United States. A few
   weeks ago the House of Representatives passed a bill condemning
   Ethiopia's human-rights record and pledging money to help opposition
   politics. Though it stands almost no chance of becoming law, it shows
   that Ethiopia is now a subject of fierce controversy.

   On six cents a day

   Ethiopia likes to do things differently. In September it started
   celebrating the new millennium (see picture above), more than seven
   years after everybody else. The country has been out of step in this
   respect since 1582: while the rest of the Christian world changed to
   the revised Gregorian calendar, Ethiopia stuck to the Julian. It also
   still keeps its own time, measured in 12-hour cycles rather than
   24-hour ones.

   Uniquely in Africa, Ethiopia was never really colonised by Europeans.
   But its singular history has been a curse as much as a blessing. As
   the rest of Africa decolonised and modernised, albeit fitfully, after
   the second world war, Ethiopia remained stuck fast in a feudal fantasy
   presided over by a diminutive emperor, Haile Selassie. He was deposed
   only in 1974, by which time the modern world had largely passed
   Ethiopia by and the country had become known for poverty and famine.
   It still is.

   Ethiopia was further damaged by the committee of military officers,
   known as the Derg, that overthrew the emperor. That regime degenerated
   into a "red terror" of gulags and summary executions; it also lost an
   expensive, wasteful war with Tigrayan and Eritrean separatists over
   what would become, in 1993, the new country of Eritrea. The Derg
   produced the dreadful famines of 1984-85, the first to be alleviated
   mainly by the efforts of Bob Geldof and a phalanx of rock stars.

   Since the early 1990s, however, Ethiopia has recovered somewhat under
   Mr Zenawi. Signs of that are evident on the big, pristine campus of
   the University of Arba Minch, more than 500km (311 miles) south of
   Ethiopia's capital, Addis Ababa. The university's president, Tarekegn
   Tadesse, has welcomed 8,000 students this term, a huge number for an
   obscure provincial town of 50,000-odd people. The crowd of freshmen,
   he says, testifies to the government's rapid expansion of tertiary
   education; in the case of Arba Minch, enrolment has increased fourfold
   in seven years.

   It is an inspiring story. The new university buildings springing up
   all over the south are tangible evidence that the aid and development
   money pumped into Ethiopia reaches the people it is meant to. Roads
   are clearly being built, funded largely by the Chinese; schools and
   water-treatment plants are being opened. And there are few complaints
   of corruption, a fact that continues to make Ethiopia popular with
   foreign donors.

   Some of the results are encouraging, too. Infant mortality is said to
   have dropped from 141 per 1,000 live births in 2000 to 123 per 1,000
   in 2005; over 70% of children are now in school, and access to clean
   water has more than doubled in ten years. Furthermore, the government
   can point to the rapid expansion of a few sectors in what is still
   mostly an agricultural economy. The great volcanic lakes of the Rift
   Valley south of the capital are now ringed by vast flower farms,
   mainly exporting to Europe. Flowers earn the country about $88m in
   exports annually, creating some 50,000 jobs in the past few years.

   Yet despite this, after almost a decade of well-intentioned
   development policies, Ethiopians remain mired in the most wretched
   poverty. Officially, about 80% of them live on less than $2 a day.
   Often it is a lot less than that. An area like Sidama, in the south,
   looks green, tropical and improbably fertile, but existence there can
   be precarious. One foreign charity, Action Contre la Faim, recently
   found that the average cash income for households in one area was six
   cents a day. Shocked researchers concluded that the depth of poverty
   there was "far beyond what had previously been thought".

   Visiting the nearby villages confirms these cold statistics. In
   Garbicho Lela, high up in the hills, a nurse estimates that 13% of
   children are severely malnourished. The one shop in the village
   betrays the low level of economic activity; on the weekly market day,
   when over 500 people will walk for hours from the surrounding
   hill-villages to sell a few things, the shop will do only about 200
   birrs ($23) of business. On an average day, it sells two Pepsis. After
   three years of good rains, aid workers reckon that the risk of severe
   food shortages has, for the moment, receded. But so marginal are the
   reserves of food and money here that one bad season could still spell
   disaster.

   The fact is that for all the aid money and Chinese loans coming in,
   Ethiopia's economy is neither growing fast enough nor producing enough
   jobs. The number of jobs created by flowers is insignificant beside an
   increase in population of about 2m a year, one of the fastest rates in
   Africa. Since every mother has about seven children, it is conceivable
   that Ethiopia, with 75m-plus people today, could overtake Nigeria (now
   140m-strong) as Africa's most populous country by mid-century. Just to
   stand still, let alone make inroads into poverty, the country must
   produce hundreds of thousands of jobs a year.

   It is hard to see where they will come from. The government claims
   that the economy has been growing at an impressive 10% a year since
   2003-04, but the real figure is probably more like 5-6%, which is
   little more than the average for sub-Saharan Africa. And even that
   modestly improved rate, with a small building boom in Addis Ababa, for
   instance, has led to the overheating of the economy, with inflation
   moving up to 19% earlier this year before the government took remedial
   action.

   The reasons for this economic crawl are not hard to find. Beyond the
   government-directed state, funded substantially by foreign aid, there
   is--almost uniquely in Africa--virtually no private-sector business at
   all. The IMF estimates that in 2005-06 the share of private investment
   in the country was just 11%, nearly unchanged since Mr Zenawi took
   over in the early 1990s. That is partly a reflection of the fact that,
   despite some privatisation since the centralised Marxist days of the
   Derg, large areas of the economy remain government monopolies, closed
   off to private business.

   Jobs for the boys

   This is where Ethiopia misses out badly. Take telecoms. While the rest
   of Africa has been virtually transformed in just a few years by a
   revolution in mobile telephony, Ethiopia stumbles along with its inept
   and useless government-run services. Everywhere else, a plethora of
   South African, home-grown and European providers has leapt into the
   market to provide Africans with an extraordinary array of cheaper and
   more efficient services, now used even by the poorest of farmers, for
   instance, to check spot prices for agricultural goods in markets miles
   away. And the mobile-phone revolution has created thousands of new
   livelihoods; at times it seems as if every boy on a street corner is
   hawking a top-up card. Not in Ethiopia.

   It is the same story in financial services, where, despite the growth
   of some smaller private banks, no foreign banks are allowed.
   Micro-finance schemes have expanded exponentially, but it remains
   almost impossible to find start-up loans for small or medium
   businesses.

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

                           Patrolling in Somalia

   There is no official unemployment rate, but youth unemployment, some
   experts reckon, may be as high as 70%. All those graduates coming out
   of state-run universities will find it very hard to get jobs. The mood
   of the young is often restless and despairing; many dream of moving
   abroad. It was this mood of resentment that the opposition tapped into
   in 2005, and the capital's maybe 300,000 unemployed young men proved a
   combustible force on the streets. The ruling party, the Ethiopian
   People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF), underestimated the
   degree of disillusion with its policies, and thus overreacted when the
   opposition polled much better than expected.

   Unless the private sector is allowed to create jobs, the country's
   problems will continue to mount and the gains of development may be
   squandered. Sooner rather than later, 2m more people a year will
   overwhelm a state that is trying to provide most of the jobs itself.

   The fractious tribes

   Economic failings are Ethiopia's biggest long-term challenge; but its
   worst short-term problems are political. Just as the government is
   slowing the pace of economic expansion for fear that individuals may
   accumulate wealth and independence, so it is failing to move fast
   enough from a one-party state to a modern, pluralist democracy. Again,
   the reason may be that it is afraid to.

   The difficulties stem partly from the country's ethnic make-up. Mr
   Zenawi and the ruling elite are Tigrayans, from the north, a group
   that is only about 7% of the population. The Oromos, mainly in the
   centre and south, comprise 40% of the population and provide most of
   the country's food; but they feel excluded from its economic gains.
   The Amharas, comprising about 22%, are traditionally Ethiopia's
   educated ruling class, providing the leadership both of the Derg and
   of Haile Selassie's empire. The main opposition party in 2005, the
   Coalition for Unity and Democracy (CUD), was largely Amharic; they
   resent the ascendancy of the Tigrayans. And in the south-east Ogaden
   region are Muslim Somalis, who have more in common with neighbouring
   Somalia than with the remote Tigrayans.

   At one time or another, most of these ethnic groups have pursued
   secessionist ambitions at the expense of a greater Ethiopia. The
   government, to its credit, must have thought that it had drawn much of
   the poison of ethnic competition by introducing a new federal
   constitution in 1994, with many powers devolved to the regions, and by
   accepting the independence of Eritrea in 1993.

   But recent events have reignited the threat of ethnic, and thus
   political, instability. The turmoil in Somalia has led to a
   reawakening of the Ogaden National Liberation Front, which in April
   killed 74 workers, including nine Chinese, at an oil-exploration camp;
   the week before last it claimed to have killed 250 government soldiers
   in a gun battle. Some of its leaders want to be part of a greater
   Islamist Somalia, and are probably being helped by the Islamist
   militias there. The Oromo Liberation Front (OLF) also continues to be
   active; though its military activities are disavowed by most Oromos,
   many sympathise with the broad aim of getting a better deal for
   Oromia. The CUD is leading the battle across the Atlantic against Mr
   Zenawi's rule, and Eritrea has tried to stoke each uprising, supplying
   arms to the Oromo rebels and even playing host to its leaders in
   Asmara, the Eritrean capital.

   Unfortunately, despite all the talk of ethnic federalism, the
   government has chosen to crack down severely on what it sees as direct
   threats to Ethiopia's integrity. This, in turn, sparks more
   opposition. The Ethiopian army has made it increasingly difficult to
   get into the Ogaden region, virtually one-fifth of the country; even
   NGOs such as Mdecins Sans Frontires have been struggling to provide
   help there. Oromo leaders complain of continuing discrimination
   against them; one of them estimates that as many as 10,000 Oromo
   sympathisers have, over the years, been rounded up and put in prisons
   across the country. Hundreds of those were university and school
   teachers arrested for giving civic-education classes that stressed
   Oromo issues--inciting protests, claimed the government.

   Bulcha Demeksa, an MP and leader of a minority Oromo party, the Oromo
   Federalist Democratic Movement, complains that in the past three
   months thousands more Oromos, many of them his own supporters, have
   been thrown into prison. He says that the government wants to
   extinguish any independent opposition outside the government-sponsored
   official Oromo party, the Oromo People's Democratic Organisation
   (OPDO). Many Oromos claim it is impossible to get state jobs in
   Oromia, such as teaching, unless they join the OPDO; farmers complain
   that they do not get fertiliser unless they join it.

   Human Rights Watch, a New York-based lobby group, says that "while
   this government is an improvement over its predecessor [the Derg], its
   human-rights record is nonetheless extremely grim." The government has
   also become highly sensitive to criticism. The Committee to Protect
   Journalists estimates that only Zimbabwe has produced more exiled
   journalists since 2001, though Eritrea is much fiercer at curbing the
   freedom of the press.

   The Ethiopian government's efforts at political control are supported
   by a wide network of informers and secret police. Critics say it is
   exploiting the jihadist terror threat to link many legitimate
   opposition campaigners and supporters with terrorist groups and take
   them off the streets. The threats from Eritrea, where a new border war
   could erupt at any time, and the Islamists in Somalia are real. But at
   this rate, argues Mr Demeksa, "the ethnic groups are on a collision
   course."

   It does not have to come to that. Many people are working tirelessly
   to bridge the differences. But if such tensions are not eased and the
   lack of jobs and opportunities not addressed, Ethiopia's future could
   get much bumpier. In that case, its friendship in a dangerously
   volatile region would be of little use to the West.


   In a country where corruption infects almost everything, is reform
   feasible?

   THE Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, for decades a source of
   corruption and national shame, is to be abolished by Nigeria's new
   president, Umaru Yar'Adua, and replaced by five new companies. The
   president, who will head a special oil council to oversee the changes,
   says he wants the reforms completed in six months. It would be an
   astonishing achievement if it happens and works.

   The industry has been very badly run for years. On September 21st a
   federal budget report said that the corporation had somehow failed to
   remit 647 billion naira (almost $5.2 billion) expected by the treasury
   last month. Production in June fell by 750,000 barrels a day, far
   below its capacity of 3m b/d.

   As well as incompetence, civil unrest has been to blame. Violence and
   pipeline sabotage have reduced output to a drip in the oil-rich Niger
   Delta, where Port Harcourt, the main city, has been under curfew for a
   month. Shell, Chevron and several other big companies have been forced
   to close their pipelines and sabotage has hobbled already decrepit
   refineries, which operated at only about one-third of their potential
   between 1999 and 2004. The Americans reckon that Nigeria has lost some
   $16 billion in export earnings in the past two years.

   Even before the violence erupted in the Delta, the industry was a
   mess. A string of military rulers saw oil revenue as a source of
   patronage and a reward for winning office. Governments spent more time
   fixing lucrative extraction contracts than investing in refineries.
   Louis Brown Ogbeifun, a former head of an oil managers' union, says a
   refinery manager could spend only $35,000 without having to ask
   permission from the central government, whereas his counterpart on the
   extraction side could spend up to $2 million off his own bat on a
   single project. When pipelines broke or were sabotaged, managers on
   the spot would have to wait for approval from the capital before
   mending them.

   Regulation has been equally erratic. Since the corporation was founded
   in 1977, its regulating arm, which was recently hived off into a new
   and supposedly independent body called the Department of Petroleum
   Resources, went in and out of company control. The new regulatory
   outfit is weak. Its cash-strapped employees still depend for various
   services, such as transport, on the oil companies they are supposed to
   monitor. The department keeps notoriously poor records. Humphrey
   Asobie, head of the Nigerian branch of Transparency International, a
   Berlin-based anti-corruption lobby, says that pay is far too low to
   stop graft.

   In a country in which oil brings in 76% of government revenues, small
   cracks cause big leaks. Audits by the Nigerian Extractive Industries
   Transparency Initiative, a body set up by the previous government,
   found that the accuracy of production figures varies widely depending
   on the purpose of the report in question. No proper metering tracks
   the output of crude oil, so no one knows exactly how much Nigeria
   produces or how much is lost in transit.

   The new government, formed only two months ago, has been admirably
   quick to take action. It has awarded a contract worth $52m to fix
   damaged pipelines in the Delta region and promised to get refineries
   working again by December. Monitoring is also improving. In May,
   before the new government was formed, Nigeria's federal parliament
   passed a law requiring the outfit that runs the transparency
   initiative to audit the oil and gas sector every year, whereas
   previously it did so every five years. The new law also provides for
   companies and officials who fail to give the auditors accurate and
   timely information to be fined.

   To push all these reforms through, the government will have to carry
   out some nifty legal manoeuvres. The energy ministry announced its
   plans before Parliament could repeal the 1977 act that created the old
   oil corporation. If the president's six-month deadline is to be met,
   Parliament will have to rush through a law to create a new national
   oil company. An energy ministry official says that all 117 laws on gas
   and oil on the statute books will have to be reassessed.

   But President Yar'Adua must take care not to cut any legal corners.
   Earlier this year, his predecessor, Olusegun Obasanjo, sold off
   several refineries in the dying days of his presidency without
   disclosing how the deals were done. In protest against this and
   against a jump in the price of petrol, there was a general strike for
   a few days in July; the new president was obliged to revoke the
   contracts. He will be loth to make the same mistake as his
   predecessor, so he has appointed two committees to draft the reforms
   and consider what laws should be passed first. But unless he manages
   to pacify the people of the Delta and so secure its pipelines and
   refineries, the reforms will be in vain.


   The passage of a long-awaited law offers a ray of hope for
   reconciliation

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

              Can Maliki be more than just a Shia poster boy?

   FOR nearly two years, Iraqis and outsiders trying to revive their
   country have been waiting in vain for politicians in Baghdad to agree
   to a clutch of laws that might coax Iraq's feuding sects towards a
   common vision. The Americans' military "surge" was explicitly intended
   to give the politicians a breathing-space so that, as security
   improved, they could force through some necessary measures. The surge
   has worked better than expected but the politicians, despite cajoling
   from their American mentors, have seemed unable to compromise. Now,
   however, the belated passage of a law to give former members of the
   once-ruling Baath party a better deal may at last unblock the
   political logjam.

   Earlier this month, parliament voted by a show of hands to approve an
   "accountability and justice" act that removes many restrictions
   imposed on the middle (but not top) level of Baath members, whose
   cadres were disproportionately Sunni. Some 30,000 one-time Baathists
   may now apply for pensions or even reinstatement in their old jobs, a
   measure meant to persuade insurgents that there is a place for the
   Sunni elite in Iraq's new political order.

   It is not yet clear whether the new law will do the trick. Radical
   Shias, who complained that its earlier drafts would have let Baathists
   infiltrate back into government and perhaps even stage a coup from
   within, were oddly supportive of the final version; it may not be
   quite as forgiving as it would first appear. Several thousand senior
   Baathists are still excluded. According to some readings of the law,
   others are barred from working in the powerful ministries of interior
   and defence. Some former Baathists complain that, whatever the law
   says, they have no desire anyway to go back to work in ministries now
   dominated by Islamist Shia parties. Others have suggested that the law
   is a ploy to lure them into the open and have them killed.

   In fact, the law's precise provisions may count less than the signal
   sent by its passage. Pensions for retired Baathists will, of course,
   be appreciated. But deBaathification affected a fairly small number of
   people; in some ways it was more a symbol than a tool of Shia
   domination.

   If the Sunni insurgency is to be tamed, it is now more vital for the
   Shia-led government to accommodate a new generation of Sunnis who have
   been strikingly successful in leading a movement known as the "Sunni
   Awakening" against those of the insurgents who are linked to the
   extremists of al-Qaeda, especially in the Euphrates river valley to
   the west and north-west of Baghdad. (The worst bloodshed is now in the
   Tigris river valley north and north-east of Baghdad.)

   The Awakening leaders want their own vigilante groups, known in
   American parlance as "concerned local citizens", to be inducted into
   the official security forces. This would give Sunni towns and
   districts the feeling of policing themselves rather than of being
   occupied by hostile Shia forces. So far, Iraq's prime minister, Nuri
   al-Maliki, has been loth to bring the Sunni vigilantes fully into the
   national security forces for fear they may later turn their arms
   against the new Shia establishment.

   Now for a little trust

   In any event, the hope is that, with the deBaathification dealt with,
   Shia and Sunni leaders may move ahead on other matters and allay some
   of the mistrust that has driven both sides into rigid positions for
   fear of losing sectarian support. Most encouraging, the Iraqi Accord
   Front, the main Sunni alliance in parliament, whose representatives
   walked out of Mr Maliki's coalition government in a huff last summer,
   says it will walk back in, restoring at least a semblance of national
   unity.

   If the government could now pass the oil bill that has been debated
   for two years, Iraqi politics really might get moving. Unfortunately,
   there is still no sign of an early breakthrough. The day after the
   deBaathification law was passed, members of parliament from the
   powerful and virulently anti-Baathist Shia movement led by a fervid
   clergyman, Muqtada al-Sadr, signed a pact with representatives of a
   secular and mainly Shia party led by Iyad Allawi, a former Baathist
   once favoured by the Americans, and with a small Sunni-led party
   called the National Dialogue Front, led by Saleh al-Mutlaq, who
   champions former Baathists' rights. The pact's signatories say that
   the federal government in Baghdad should retain full control of the
   oil industry, whereas the Kurds in their autonomous region still
   insist that they should control, among other things, the management
   and exploration of oil in their area.

   In theory, this odd-looking new alliance in parliament could count on
   up to 100 votes in the 275-member chamber. Since Mr Maliki's alliance
   with the Kurds has frayed, thanks to the row over oil and the failure
   to hold a promised referendum on the disputed province of Kirkuk, 100
   votes could be enough to bring him down. But it is not clear how
   strongly the Sadrists are wedded to the new alliance. Moreover,
   however unpopular Mr Maliki may be, few Iraqis want to restart the
   whole tortuous process of building a coalition government. Besides,
   the Sadrist movement is itself a loose alliance of local warlords and
   pliant populist politicians. Mr Sadr currently spends more time trying
   to keep his own house in order than fighting for more power at the
   national level.

   A possible shift of power in the provinces may have a bigger effect.
   The third big element in the national reconciliation package, after
   the laws to do with the Baath party and oil, is provincial elections.
   Most Sadrist and Sunni politicians refused to stand when they were
   last held, in January 2005, which meant that the provincial councils
   in Sunni areas were unrepresentative and often toothless. If militant
   groups could be persuaded to take part this time, the new councils
   might go some way to empowering the hitherto disaffected Sunnis--and
   perhaps persuade them to engage in peaceful politics. Then there might
   be more than a glimmer of hope of the country's returning to the path
   of peace.


   The surge of American troops has dramatically reduced violence. But
   Iraq's politicians may still squander an obvious chance for
   reconciliation

                                                                       AP

                                     AP


   AFTER more than three years as an interpreter for American troops in
   the city of Falluja, Dave (not his real name) recently had his hair
   cut for the first time by a local barber. Since then, several American
   marines based inside the city of some 300,000 people have also had
   their crew-cut domes locally shaved to a gleam. Six months ago they
   would have had their throats slit--and so, almost certainly, would the
   barber.

   But times have changed dramatically. Once widely considered the most
   dangerous and xenophobic city in Iraq and one of the country's most
   resilient havens of al-Qaeda, Falluja is now enjoying a new, if
   tentative, peace. So, no less strikingly, is the whole of Anbar
   province, in which Falluja lies, and most of the Euphrates river
   valley. The Americans say that if you go north and north-west through
   Hit and Haditha and up to the border with Syria near the town of Qaim,
   it is clear that al-Qaeda has been chased out--with the co-operation
   of the local Sunnis and the tribal leaders. In those areas, which
   embrace the vast majority of Iraq's Sunni Arabs outside Baghdad,
   attacks against the American-led coalition forces have dropped more
   than tenfold compared with a year ago.

   The peace in Falluja is fragile, as it is in the Sunni parts
   elsewhere. There is no knowing what would happen if the Americans left
   in a hurry. It is unclear whether al-Qaeda in Iraq (known in Western
   military circles as AQI) has been truly defeated or is biding its
   time. Nor is it certain that the local Sunni tribal leaders who have
   struck security deals with the Americans across Anbar province would,
   if the Americans left, make war or peace with the Shia-dominated
   government in Baghdad.

   But however temporary it may prove to be, it is an extraordinary
   change. In the precinct of Nazal--one of Falluja's nine, each with a
   joint American-cum-Iraqi police station--locals watch warily as a
   dozen helmeted young American marines, their guns pointed at the
   ground, tramp slowly past, avoiding puddles of sewage and piles of
   rubbish (much favoured by insurgents as a place for planting roadside
   bombs), and smiling at the knots of ragged children who shout
   "Chocola, meester" and are sometimes given pencils instead.

   After every ten steps or so, the marines swivel round and walk
   backwards, giving themselves a maximum field of vision. A couple of
   local Iraqi volunteers, clad in blue jeans and without helmets,
   accompany the patrol. Locals politely exchange salaams; veiled women
   with babes in arms retreat hastily behind high metal doors. But the
   marines say the mood has been transformed. No marine has been killed
   in Falluja since the summer's surge. The patrol stops from time to
   time as its leader, a fresh-faced corporal from Chicago, engages
   passers-by, via Dave, the newly coiffed interpreter from Baghdad, in
   amiably stilted badinage. A boy is asked about football. A shopkeeper
   talks about his oranges, and how business is only slowly improving.
   The Shia-led government in Baghdad, it is plainly believed, is loth to
   give much help to the Fallujans, with their reputation for Sunni
   extremism.

   After the Americans' ten-day attack on Falluja in November 2004, much
   of the city was a mess of rubble; despite a spate of building that
   started in the summer, also thanks to the surge, the marks of
   destruction are still visible everywhere. At least 1,500 Islamist
   militants, most of them members of AQI, many of them foreign, were
   said to have been killed in the siege, but until this spring the city
   remained a smouldering hub of insurgency.

   The turning point, apparently, was the al-Qaeda suicide-bombing of a
   policeman's funeral in May, when at least 27 locals were killed.
   Suddenly, it seems, the people began to react against al-Qaeda's
   excesses--the enforcement of strict dress codes, the banning of music,
   even (it is said) the cutting off of smokers' fingers--and were ready
   to endorse the local sheikhs' deals with the American army, even
   though it had pulverised their city.

   Al-Qaeda on the defensive

   Falluja is still not back to normal. A curfew remains in force. Just
   five entry points, guarded by American soldiers alongside Iraqi
   police, oversee access into the city. Each precinct is like a gated
   community. Every car must have an identity badge to be let in. Even
   so, a bombmaker occasionally gets through. "They're waiting and
   watching," says an American lieutenant.

   Moreover, the rest of Iraq, like Falluja, is still far more dangerous
   for Americans and other foreigners than it was in the first few months
   after the invasion of 2003, before the insurgency got going. The
   entire nerve-centre of the American administration, staffed by some
   10,000 people, remains walled off in Baghdad's so-called "green zone".
   Few foreign diplomats get out and about. Western journalists use a web
   of Iraqi reporters, but their movements are still restricted. Several
   of Baghdad's best-known streets remain off-limits to traffic.

   However, it is clear that the al-Qaeda part of the insurgency, which
   is manned almost entirely by Iraqis though its suicide-bombers and its
   strategists may still be foreign, has been hard hit. Although in
   November more than 20 civilians were killed on an average day, mainly
   by sectarian violence, that is far less than the toll a year ago, when
   the discovery of as many as 100 corpses at dawn was not unusual. An
   independent website, [4]icasualties.org, while admitting that Iraqi
   civilian deaths are hard to count, puts the figure of Iraqi security
   forces and civilians killed in November at around 560, compared with
   more than 3,000 last February. American military deaths since October
   are less than a third of the figure a year ago.

   All the indicators suggest that violence has subsided sharply nearly
   everywhere, not just in Anbar, but also in Baghdad. The border
   crossing to Syria near Qaim has opened after several years' closure.
   The oil pipeline from Kirkuk, which goes north into Turkey and should
   carry more than a fifth of Iraq's oil exports, has been flowing almost
   without a break for the first time in years; in 2006, it was open for
   barely 40 days. "We are close to a sustainable level of violence,"
   says the overall commander of the American-led forces, General David
   Petraeus. He means that fears of a murderous sectarian meltdown have
   receded, though he gives constant warning that things could slip back
   again.

   Meanwhile, the Shia heartlands around Karbala and Najaf have been
   quiet since a bloody bout of intra-Shia sectarian violence in Karbala
   in August. Since September, when the British left the centre of Basra,
   Iraq's second city, which is 95% Shia, violence there too has dipped
   very sharply--and the British, now encamped at an airport outside the
   city, are being fired on some ten times less than before.

   The Kurds are also at peace, despite the hiccup in October and
   November, when the Turkish army threatened to invade in force in order
   to clobber the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), a group of
   Turkish-Kurdish guerrillas who use a remote and rugged strip of Iraqi
   Kurdistan's borderland as a haven. The exception is the disputed city
   of Kirkuk, where ethno-sectarian violence, mainly between Kurds and
   Sunni Arabs, shows no sign of abating.

   But a bitter battle is still being fought upstream along the Tigris
   river valley and its tributaries, up to Mosul and beyond. The
   mixed-sect province of Diyala is probably today's bloodiest cockpit,
   where the Americans and their allies in the Iraqi security forces are
   fighting an array of Islamist and nationalist insurgents with al-Qaeda
   again to the fore.

   The surge is by no means the sole reason for Iraq's improved security.
   A truce was called in August by the biggest and perhaps bravest of the
   Shia militias, the Mahdi Army, better known to the American-led
   coalition by its Arabic acronym JAM (from Jaish al-Mahdi), whose
   gunmen are known as JAMsters. This in turn may have helped turn Sunnis
   against al-Qaeda; facing fewer attacks from the Shia militias, they
   had less cause to embrace a ruthless Sunni protector.

   The Sunni awakening

   But the biggest reason is probably the agreements that the Americans
   have struck in Anbar province with Sunni tribal leaders who have
   formed a group known as al-Sahwa (the Awakening). The Americans have
   armed some 65,000 Sunnis, with another 12,000 or so keen to sign up,
   in tribal battalions known in coalition-speak as "Concerned Local
   Citizens" (CLCs). These groups have also set up militias in some
   suburbs of Baghdad, mainly in the capital's west, where the Sunnis had
   hosted al-Qaeda with varying degrees of reluctance in the face of a
   sectarian onslaught. Some 12,000 Shia are also said to be poised to
   join CLC groups to co-operate with the Americans elsewhere.

   The Americans are also freeing thousands of the 25,000-odd detainees
   they hold on suspicion of being insurgents (quite separately from the
   thousands more in Iraqi government custody). In the past few months
   some 3,000 have been let out, and imams have been helping to persuade
   those about to be freed to disavow AQI.

   Yet another reason is what a senior British officer calls "a huge
   change in American behaviour" since the wily and thoughtful General
   Petraeus took up his post in January. Efforts to co-operate with local
   imams, to respect local culture, to hire more locals as interpreters
   and to increase the number of Arabic-speakers on American military and
   civilian staffs have borne fruit. It helps, too, that the American
   ambassador, Ryan Crocker, is an experienced Arabist who can also speak
   a bit of Farsi.

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                             Not quite ready to take over

   In Falluja, female officers are deployed to question and search women.
   American soldiers there almost never go into mosques. But befriending
   imams is now a priority. Earlier this week, one of Falluja's leading
   imams, Sheikh Nazar, who has been a critical ally against al-Qaeda,
   officiated at the opening of a revamped police station. "If we lose
   him, we lose the lot," says a marine lieutenant.

   It is plain that many of the CLC and tribal groups previously
   supported--indeed were part of--the national or "honourable"
   resistance to the occupation and have simply switched sides, seeing
   that, at any rate in the short run, the Americans could protect them
   against Shia militia depredations. But many insurgent groups apart
   from al-Qaeda are still fighting against the Americans and their
   allies. Some analysts have counted more than 75 of them. Certain
   prominent groups, such as the 1920 Revolutionary Brigades, named after
   an uprising soon after the British invented Iraq as a country, say
   they are simply waiting for the surge and the lull to end before
   erupting again. Others among these fractious bands are talking to the
   Americans, and may yet make peace.

   A golden opportunity

   What is clear, in any event, is that there is a gaping window of
   opportunity for economic, diplomatic and political progress. On the
   economic front, most development had been stymied by insecurity. Now
   projects are starting to go ahead. Electricity in Baghdad is on for up
   to 12 hours a day, against eight hours six months ago. Oil production,
   though still not at its pre-war level, has climbed from its trough of
   1.75m barrels a day in January last year to more than 2.5m b/d today.
   Shops are reopening in many parts of Baghdad, and businessmen are
   hopeful, though foreign investors have yet to return.

   On the diplomatic front there are hints of progress, too. American
   generals have cautiously noted an apparently greater readiness on the
   part of Syria to clamp down on al-Qaeda and the traffic of insurgents
   across its border. Iran, too, may be stanching the flow of weaponry to
   its Iraqi Shia militia friends. More broadly, there is a growing
   acceptance, both by Iraq's government and by the Americans, that
   political progress requires a regional framework in which Iraq's key
   neighbours--Saudi Arabia, Syria, Turkey and Iran--can play a part. The
   United Nations is back in greater numbers, with a high-class envoy,
   Staffan de Mistura, ready to help, especially with tricky issues such
   as provincial polls and the question of Kirkuk.

   So Iraq's politicians at last have a chance to use the breathing space
   provided by the surge and by the Awakening to accommodate each other.
   Several issues are ripe for resolution. An oil law, to divide revenue
   equitably while giving regions (especially the Kurdish one) some
   freedom to grant exploration and management contracts locally, has
   been in the offing for more than a year. A revised deBaathification
   law, to bring back officials from the Saddam Hussein era into public
   service, is under scrutiny, along with a pensions law to give such
   officials a better deal.

   Perhaps most important, a provincial-elections law is under
   discussion. This could lead the way to new elections in the spring,
   enabling the newly "awakened" Sunnis of western and northern Iraq to
   empower themselves, especially in budget matters; last time round, in
   January 2005, they boycotted the elections. If they had real power in
   their provinces, they might drop their fierce opposition to
   devolution, which they have hitherto seen as a Western device to
   fragment their country.

   Alas, there has so far been no sign that the government of Nuri
   al-Maliki is poised to grab this opportunity. Indeed, as an adviser to
   General Petraeus glumly describes it, "The politics is going nowhere."
   The government still acts like a collection of competing fiefs, not a
   body that speaks with a national voice. Even among Shias, a paralysing
   factionalism has, if anything, got worse. The two principal Shia
   parties, Mr Maliki's Dawa and the better-organised Islamic Supreme
   Council of Iraq (ISCI), both fear the mass appeal of Muqtada al-Sadr,
   who has stayed out of government but often calls the shots on the
   streets.

   Worse, Mr Maliki is still failing to reach out effectively to the
   Sunnis. The main Sunni block in parliament, which had a clutch of
   ministries in the ruling coalition, continues to take no part in
   government. Relations worsened recently when a son of Adnan
   al-Dulaimi, a leader of the biggest Sunni block in parliament, was
   arrested with some 30 of his father's personal guards on suspicion of
   involvement in insurgent bombings. To cap it all, the Sunnis are
   sorely divided too--and not just over al-Qaeda. The main Sunni block
   in parliament is deeply wary of the Awakening in Anbar, which may
   displace it as the authentic voice of the Sunnis nationwide.

   Mr Maliki himself sounds particularly hostile to the notion of the
   CLCs--the mainly Sunni tribal militias--being inducted into the
   security forces or civil service as part of the price of peace. The
   new Shia establishment hates the arming of the Sunni militias because
   it thinks they may one day turn their guns against the Shias.

   The current edgy lull is due in large measure to a series of local
   deals cut between the American army (and the British army in Basra)
   and groups close to the insurgents, with the centrally run state
   thereby diminished. Indeed, it can be argued that such deals are
   eroding the state and its fragile institutions still more. But it may
   be the only way to go.

   A tendency to disagree

   The fundamental flaw in Iraqi politics persists. The new Shia order
   remains loth, after centuries of oppression, to give the Sunnis a
   decent slice of power; and the minority Sunnis seem unable to accept
   second place in a devolved state. Last week a deputy prime minister, a
   Sunni, denied that Shias outnumber Sunni Arabs.

   In his memoir of service as a British diplomat, among other places in
   Baghdad in the 1960s, Sir Donald Hawley characterises the Iraqis thus:

     [They] are a very talented, intellectual people and have no lack of
     experts on many subjects. They have a tendency, however, not to
     agree with one another and are no strangers to violence. Late at
     night after several strong whiskies, they could be very frank on
     many subjects, including themselves, and would sometimes grow quite
     maudlin. We are a very bad people and very difficult to govern. Did
     we not kill Ali [the Prophet Muhammad's son-in-law, whom the Shias
     revere]? Did we not kill Hussain [his son]? Very few have
     successfully dominated us...Nuri Said [the pro-British prime
     minister, assassinated in 1958] too knew how to govern Iraq," they
     would say. It is an Iraqi trait to admire strength and to respect
     it for the stability it can give.

   Mr Maliki has a last chance to change things for the better. Iraq's
   battered people are yearning for their politicians to make up. But
   some things do not change.


   The people are watching the new president to see which way he will go


   DESPITE the stench of April's elections, described by many observers
   as the most fraudulent they had ever witnessed, the new president,
   Umaru Yar'Adua, has been enjoying a honeymoon with the Nigerian
   electorate. For a country that has known little but corrupt military
   or civilian rule in the past 40 years or more, Mr Yar'Adua at least
   looks and sounds different. But now Nigerians are waiting for him to
   take the harder decisions that alone may sort out some of their
   country's more intractable problems. Only then will they be able to
   tell if he is truly up to the job.

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                              How much time does he have?

   The "servant leader", as he styles himself, has made a fair start,
   even if it amounts so far mainly to promises and gestures. Mr Yar'Adua
   has announced several plans to boost Nigeria's economy, root out
   corruption, get the power-grid working again and stem the rising
   violence in the Niger Delta region and elsewhere. He has avoided
   meddling in a corruption scandal in the National Assembly, as his
   predecessors might have done, leaving the legislature's committees to
   sort it out. And, just as significantly, he has refused to intervene
   on behalf of former state governors from his own party who have been
   indicted by the country's anti-corruption agency. The tribunals set up
   to challenge the election results have also been allowed to operate
   freely; on October 10th, one called for fresh elections in Kogi state.

   The economy is in better shape too. It is growing at about 6% a year,
   while inflation is down to single figures, about four times less than
   the rate in 2000. Better fiscal management has meant more foreign
   currency in the banks and more foreign investment. Nigeria is now the
   32nd most corrupt nation in the world, according to a Berlin-based
   anti-corruption watchdog, Transparency International, down from the
   top spot in 2000: progress of sorts.

   Yet Nigerians know that enormous problems persist; their patience may
   soon run out. In the Niger Delta, the biggest militant group, the
   Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, declared a ceasefire
   for a few months after Mr Yar'Adua took office. But last month it
   returned to its customary kidnappings and sabotage. Moreover, the
   violence has got nastier and more indiscriminate. The kidnappers have
   begun to nab children, as well as foreign oil workers, politicians and
   ordinary Nigerians. To flush the militants out of the creeks, the new
   vice-president, Jonathan Goodluck, a local man, has begun meeting
   representatives of the various Delta groups. But peace still seems a
   long way off.

   The increasing violence stretches far beyond the Delta. A report by
   Human Rights Watch, a New York-based lobby group, details how
   political parties armed rival gangs to rig elections and intimidate
   voters in 2003 and again this year. Many of the politicians have
   failed to cough up for those services, so the gangs have been venting
   their frustration on the streets.

   Despite being Africa's largest oil producer, Nigeria still fails to
   provide enough power for its own people. Electricity is sporadic in
   towns and almost non-existent in the countryside. A closet industry of
   private generators fills the gap at a price sometimes ten times that
   of state-generated power. The president created a National Energy
   Council last month and told it to come up with a plan to solve the
   power crisis in six months. But he himself seems to have few firm
   ideas how to do it.

   One constraint on Mr Yar'Adua is that most of the revenue from
   Nigeria's oil goes to the 36 states, which are then meant to provide
   the desperate people with their local services. These local
   governments are often the most corrupt. So the president will have to
   find a way of ensuring that the huge sums of money available actually
   reach the people--for instance, in the Delta. To do that, he will have
   to free himself of the political networks and alliances that he
   inherited from previous administrations and which still ensnare the
   country. Nigerians are waiting to see which way he will move.


   Will the Kurds get their way?


   AS YOU drive through the city of Kirkuk, with its drab buildings,
   dusty and rubbish-strewn streets and general decrepitude, you wonder
   why it stirs such anguish at the heart of Iraq's national-unity
   government in Baghdad. One big answer is the huge, sprawling oilfields
   on the city's western fringe.

   But for Kirkuk's Kurds and their brethren in the autonomous Kurdish
   region to the north, it is about far more than just oil. Kirkuk is a
   symbol, they say, of everything Kurdish: their people, their land,
   their history. They say they can be reconciled with their Arab
   compatriots, both Sunni and Shia, only if Saddam Hussein's
   "Arabisation" campaign--the settlement of tens of thousands of Arabs
   in Kirkuk during his three decades in power--is reversed.

   Iraq's president, Jalal Talabani, a Kurd from Kirkuk, called the city
   "our Jerusalem". But while the status of the real Jerusalem looks set
   to remain disputed for many years, most Kurds now think that Kirkuk's
   fate will be satisfactorily sealed this year. Most Arabs still
   disagree. But the tide may be flowing the Kurds' way.

   Last week, Kurdish leaders threatened to quit the government in
   Baghdad, where they are allied to the main Shia block, unless the
   cabinet of Nuri al-Maliki stopped dragging its feet over Kirkuk. A
   deal was then struck: thousands of Arabs who had settled in Kirkuk
   would be compensated with land and money if they went back to their
   original homes, mainly in the south.

   The justice minister, Hashem al-Shibli, said that those who left would
   be paid about $15,000 and given land in their former home towns. Mr
   Shibli, who has been chairing a committee looking into the issue, said
   that Kirkuk's authorities would soon begin giving out forms to Arab
   families to assess who was eligible for resettlement, which would be
   voluntary.

   The minister then surprised everyone by resigning, citing differences
   with the government and his own political block, led by a former prime
   minister, Iyad Allawi, partly over Kirkuk. The controversial Article
   140 of Iraq's new constitution provides for several things: the return
   of Arab "settlers" and a redrawing of the boundaries of Kirkuk
   province, surrounding the city; a census; and then, by November 15th
   this year, a referendum on whether Kirkuk should join the present
   Kurdistan federal region. Kurds calculate that, once enough Arabs have
   left, the vote will go their way. One Arab member of parliament says
   that 12,600 families, which means around 90,000 people, have already
   agreed to go.

   The referendum's exact terms have yet to be drafted. Among other
   things, the Kurds want to adjust the borders of Kirkuk province to
   bring back four Kurdish-populated towns (Chamchamal, Kalar, Tuz
   Kermatu and Kifri) which Saddam had put into other provinces to shift
   Kirkuk's demographic balance against the Kurds. They also want the
   Kurdish region to include a string of mostly Kurdish towns, in a loop
   running from Sinjar, west of (mainly Arab) Mosul, through Makhmur,
   south-west of Arbil, to Mandali in the south-east near the Iranian
   border. The Kurds' geographic borders, they say, should roughly follow
   the line of the Hamrin mountains.

   Many of Kirkuk's Arabs and Turkomen fiercely object to all such ideas.
   The Turkomen say they are Kirkuk's original rulers, while most Arabs
   say Kirkuk is Iraqi and should stay so. Sunni Arab nationalists
   elsewhere in Iraq, plus followers of the populist Shia cleric, Muqtada
   al-Sadr, have denounced the plan to push Kirkuk's Arab families to
   move south. Few Arabs or Turkomen trust the city's Kurdish-dominated
   authorities to treat them fairly. Turkey's government, facing
   elections this year, rejects the Kurds' claims to Kirkuk and says it
   may have to intervene militarily if the city's Turkomen are
   threatened. The Americans say Kirkuk is an internal Iraqi issue and
   are urging the Turks to stay out.

   So there are fears that tensions may yet boil over in a city where
   Kurds, Arabs, Turkomen and Christians edgily co-exist. This week a
   massive bomb hit a police station in a mainly Kurdish district,
   killing 15 people, including children at a nearby school. Such
   attacks, presumably by Sunni insurgents, may increase, in the hope
   that the Kurds delay the referendum. But as things stand, they are
   determined to hold it.


                                                                    Panos

                                   Panos

   Food becomes scarcer, even in Robert Mugabe's rural strongholds

   THE meeting of the 14-member Southern African Development Community
   (SADC) in Zambia last week provided scant hope for the people of
   Zimbabwe. Few details emerged from behind the closed doors, but
   Zambia's President Levy Mwanawasa, who currently chairs the regional
   body and had previously compared Zimbabwe to a sinking Titanic,
   declared that problems in the neighbouring country were "exaggerated".
   With 80% unemployment, inflation that could now be over 10,000%, and
   severe shortages of the most basic goods, many Zimbabweans may
   disagree. Over 3m of them are thought to have left the country, and
   the UN refugee agency is working on contingency plans in case the
   exodus worsens.

   Another UN agency, the World Food Programme, reckons that 4m
   Zimbabweans--about one-third of the population--will need food aid by
   the beginning of next year. The harvest of maize, the local staple
   food, was meagre this year. Rains have been poor, and the government's
   disastrous land-reform programme has turned once flourishing
   commercial farming into subsistence agriculture.

   This is plain to see in rural Mashonaland, the area around the
   capital, Harare, and the traditional heartland of President Robert
   Mugabe's ruling ZANU-PF. Most of the land where tobacco and maize used
   to grow lies fallow, taken over by wild vegetation. A few hours' drive
   south of Harare, a commercial farm that used to grow maize and rear
   cattle has now been divided into 35 plots where subsistence farmers
   try to scrape a living. The irrigation system and the water pump that
   once turned the harsh terrain into fertile soil and provided drinking
   water broke down long ago. Only one of the 100 or so farm workers who
   used to work there remains. His small plot is dry, and he has to walk
   several kilometres to get water from a neighbouring farm. He reckons
   he has enough maize to feed his family until November. When his stock
   runs out, he'll be lucky to get one meal a day until the next harvest,
   in March or April.

   A school was set up on the farm, and one of the teachers now lives in
   the main house, which was looted when the white owner was evicted.
   Even light switches have been ripped from the walls, not that they
   would be of much use now. There is electricity a few hours a day only,
   usually at night. The taps ran dry a long time ago.

   The school is in a small building that used to house farm workers.
   Teachers and parents have joined forces to try to make it work.
   Benches are made up of old planks balanced on brick stacks, and
   makeshift tables have been built from scrap wood. None of the three
   tiny classrooms has any windows or doors left. School fees are 20,000
   Zimbabwean dollars a term--or 11 American cents at the black-market
   exchange rate--but some parents cannot afford even that. The teacher
   says that a third of children in the area do not go to school at all.

   Nearby, two of his pupils are staring up a tree, slingshots in hand.
   They are hunting a monkey, their only chance of eating meat. The
   youngest, wearing shorts that reveal his bony legs, says they manage
   two meals a day: tea and bread, when available, for breakfast, and
   maize porridge later in the day. His battered shoes are far too big
   and the laces are tied around his ankles to keep them from flying off.
   He lives 4km (2.5 miles) away and walks to school.

   In another part of Mashonaland, a white commercial farmer tries to
   hang on, having lost the bulk of his farm to a senior government
   official and a few war veterans. He is one of the 350 or so commercial
   farmers thought to be left, from 4,500 before the government started
   redistributing land in 2000. A portrait of Mr Mugabe hangs on the
   office wall and he maintains good relations with local officials. The
   farmer points out that he is not fighting land redistribution itself.
   But some buildings (including his own house), valuable equipment and
   crops already planted have been taken over as well, so he is fighting
   that in court.

   He has scaled back cash crops such as wheat and maize massively, and
   focuses on exports of citrus and tobacco, which bring much-needed
   foreign exchange. The next crops will need to be planted soon.
   Uncertain about the farm's future, he ponders over whether to make the
   investment. From 1,200 workers, he now employs only about 500. "We are
   going one way," he says. "Down."

   The farm no longer makes money, but cheap government loans and heavily
   subsidised diesel help to keep him going. He also plants and harvests
   on neighbouring farms, which have been reallocated to black owners,
   and gets half the crop. Many new landowners find that reselling their
   subsidised diesel on the black market is far more lucrative than
   farming.

   Presidential and parliamentary elections in Zimbabwe are scheduled for
   next March. The ruling party has been accused of leaning on
   traditional chiefs to control rural voters. Road-blocks in Mashonaland
   are frequent. In Chegutu, close to Mr Mugabe's home, shops are
   depressingly bare, and the struggling local factories and farms have
   laid off workers. But after years of intimidation, the opposition has
   almost disappeared. There is little visible security presence. Not so
   in Marondera, 45 minutes south-east of Harare, where the much-feared
   youth militia roam the streets and the atmosphere is tense.

   Voter registration has just finished. The Zimbabwe Election Support
   Network, a local NGO, reports serious irregularities, with rural
   voters loyal to ZANU-PF registering in cities, presumably to dilute
   support for the opposition, strongest in urban areas. But Zimbabweans
   will no doubt be cheered to know that the SADC's leaders, at the end
   of their Lusaka summit, wished elections next year to be free and
   fair.


   Political upheaval in the ruling ANC

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP


   AFTER months of acrimony, the African National Congress (ANC) has
   elected Jacob Zuma to be its new leader. In a ballot of almost 4,000
   delegates at the national conference of South Africa's ruling party in
   the small town of Polokwane, Mr Zuma defeated the incumbent, Thabo
   Mbeki, by a wider margin than some had predicted; 2,329 votes to
   1,505. Once the result was announced, prompting mad cheers from Mr
   Zuma's followers, Mr Mbeki, visibly shaken, came on the podium with
   his rival. They embraced, to great applause, and Mr Mbeki retreated
   while Mr Zuma took his presidential seat. Mr Zuma, formerly the
   party's deputy leader, is now in prime position (though not certain)
   to succeed Mr Mbeki as the country's next president. Mr Mbeki, who has
   served two terms, has to step down as head of state in 2009.

   For a party renowned for its iron discipline, the scenes in the tents
   at Polokwane were unprecedented. Mosiuoa Lekota, the ANC's chairman
   and a supporter of Mr Mbeki, was booed and heckled from a boisterous
   floor. True to his style, Mr Mbeki delivered a dreary, technocratic
   speech that lasted for over two hours, listing the socio-economic
   achievements of the past decade. He ended by lamenting the increasing
   patronage, corruption and unprincipled politicking within the party--a
   thinly veiled swipe at his rival--and called for moral regeneration.
   But Mr Zuma's supporters broke out in songs supporting their hero as
   soon as Mr Mbeki had finished his address. They insisted on a manual
   counting of the votes, for fear that the Mbeki camp would rig the
   result.

   Mr Mbeki tried to rebut accusations that he does not tolerate dissent
   and has centralised power. But he failed to convince the party's rank
   and file, who strongly favour the more congenial Mr Zuma. For the
   first time in decades, the party's local branches were genuinely able
   to choose their leader; in the past he would have been selected by the
   party's top brass. A delegate from the Eastern Cape, Mr Mbeki's
   homeland, argued that change was needed. She complained that public
   services were still dismal in the rural part of the province where she
   lives. Another delegate, from the Free State, argued that Mr
   Mbeki--who has been at the helm of the party for almost a decade--had
   been in charge for too long already.

   Yet despite this victory, Mr Zuma is by no means assured of the
   national presidency in 2009. For a start, his past could return to
   haunt him. He was acquitted of rape last year, but the National
   Prosecuting Authority, after years of investigation, could well charge
   him for corruption again. His supporters dismiss his legal problems as
   a political conspiracy, but Mr Zuma would have to resign if convicted.
   In that case, Kgalema Motlanthe, the party's secretary-general, who
   has been elected as the party's number two, could take over.

   Whatever happens, the relationship between the government, dominated
   by Mr Mbeki's faithful, and an ANC led by Mr Zuma will be awkward. The
   next few months could see either a patching-up of the rift over the
   succession or a purge inside the party of Mbeki loyalists. There are
   even questions over whether Mr Mbeki will finish his full term as the
   country's president, although Mr Zuma has said that he sees no reason
   for his early departure.


   Robert Mugabe may be facing his most dangerous opponent yet

   THE new year has brought little joy to most Zimbabweans, as they
   struggle to survive worsening food shortages, hyperinflation and
   joblessness. But at least there is a flicker of movement on the
   political front. The ruling ZANU-PF is said to be on the brink of
   splitting, ahead of parliamentary and presidential elections due in
   March. Simba Makoni, a former finance minister, has been named as a
   prospective splinter's possible leader. Could he pose a serious
   challenge to President Robert Mugabe's hitherto firm grip on power?

   Mr Makoni, who has been in and out of cabinet since 1980, is still
   part of the ruling party's top leadership. Widely respected as a
   technocrat and one of ZANU-PF's few stalwarts untainted by corruption,
   he is a danger to Mr Mugabe because he could appeal both to
   disgruntled people in the ruling party as well as to the opposition.
   He does not have much grassroots support, but, in the words of Sydney
   Masamvu of the International Crisis Group, a Brussels-based lobby, he
   heads "a coalition of the wounded, the marginalised and the bitter"
   within ZANU-PF. Some within this coalition have links to Solomon
   Mujuru, a powerful party figure and former army chief whose wife is a
   vice-president. But it is unclear whether Mr Mujuru, who has hedged
   his bets in the past, is directly involved in Mr Makoni's brave--or
   rash--bid.

   Mr Mugabe would struggle to see off a big revolt within his ZANU-PF,
   especially if it were in cahoots with the opposition Movement for
   Democratic Change (MDC). But such an alliance would be hard to forge.
   Mr Mugabe has destroyed or co-opted his rivals for decades. The
   success of this latest rebellion would depend on whether the economic
   catastrophe and Mr Mugabe's excesses make enough ZANU-PF people stand
   up to the president and then stick together. If so, it may convince
   the MDC, which is itself split into two factions and is weak on its
   own, to close ranks and jump on a bandwagon led by Mr Makoni.

   In the meantime, talks between ZANU-PF and the two-headed MDC resumed
   this week. Following the beating-up of MDC leaders last March, South
   Africa's president, Thabo Mbeki, has been trying to mediate between
   the two sides. As a goodwill gesture, the MDC agreed to a
   constitutional amendment proposed by the ruling party that upped the
   number of seats in parliament, though the new constituencies are
   likely to favour ZANU-PF, which keeps a firm grip on rural areas. In
   December, repressive security and media laws were eased a bit. In a
   breakthrough, both sides agreed in principle to a new constitution.

   But the talks have not improved things on the ground. Amnesty
   International, a human-rights group, says the government still beats
   and tortures its opponents. Local watchdogs have decried
   irregularities in voter registration ahead of the election and in
   demarking constituencies.

   The MDC also wants the new constitution, which includes a requirement
   for an independent electoral commission, enacted before the election.
   This would mean preparing for it all over again, which Mr Mugabe
   unsurprisingly refuses to do. So the opposition wants the election
   postponed, and Morgan Tsvangirai, one of the MDC's rival leaders, has
   threatened to boycott it if these conditions are not met.

   Mr Mugabe, in power since 1980, is bent on winning another term. The
   South Africans hope that, fairly soon after that, he will step down
   and hand over to an anointed successor from within ZANU-PF, perhaps
   Emerson Mnangagwa, a former security chief who has been the Mujurus'
   rival in the ruling party. The new ruler might--so the plan
   goes--reach out to one faction of the MDC and form a national unity
   government. The West might then pile in with cash and advice to give
   Zimbabwe a fresh start.

   But Mr Makoni's bid, if he makes it, would turn all such calculations
   upside down. It is unclear how Mr Mugabe would handle or squash
   him--or whether Mr Makoni would take a big chunk of ZANU-PF with him
   or form a wider coalition from outside the ruling party. The MDC
   faction led by Arthur Mutambara is said to be keen to join up with
   him.

   Mr Mugabe, for his part, is said to be terrified that a new regime
   would send him to face charges of crimes against humanity at the
   international court in The Hague. In any event, Mr Makoni has given
   Zimbabweans at least a fleeting moment of hope that real change is in
   the offing at last.


   Illicit drugs flow in from all over and then flow out to Europe


   A FAIRLY typical recent morning at Murtala Mohammed, Lagos's main
   airport, saw four traffickers carrying cocaine, heroin or marijuana
   caught, arrested and X-rayed before noon. All but one of them lived
   abroad, in Belgium, India and Spain. Stuck without money or just
   looking for more, they had agreed to swallow the stuff or slip it into
   their luggage. Since the beginning of the year, Nigeria's Drug Law
   Enforcement Agency has made 234 similar arrests at this Lagos airport.
   But this, according to the agency's director-general, Lanre Ipinmisho,
   is just grazing the surface of the country's booming drug trade.

   West Africa is the newest centre for trafficking drugs into Europe.
   European demand for cocaine and heroin is rising fast and dealers,
   faced with intense scrutiny on familiar import routes, have been
   obliged to find new ones. Cocaine from the Andes is arriving at west
   Africa's ports, airports and border crossings. Heroin from Afghanistan
   is coming in too.

   Nigeria is not the only victim of the growing trade. Guinea-Bissau, a
   small country emerging from civil war and a string of coups, has seen
   its tiny export economy overrun by illegal drugs. But as the economic
   hub of west Africa, Nigeria has, inevitably, also become its
   drug-trafficking hub. Last year 44% of the west African
   drug-traffickers arrested in Europe were Nigerian (compared with 3%
   from Guinea-Bissau). Drugs have been trickling across Nigeria's
   borders since the 1980s, but over the past few years the trickle has
   become a torrent.

   Nigeria's history of fighting the scourge is not the sort to
   discourage dealers. Its drug agency, founded in 1990, was immediately
   immersed in scandal when its own top people were themselves found to
   be involved in trafficking. At the end of October the country's
   independent commission on corrupt practices called in the agency's
   former chairman and eight other officials for questioning over money
   and drugs missing from an exhibit.

   Organised criminals have also got into the business. The country's
   anti-graft body, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, says it
   often stumbles upon drugs during money-laundering raids. The most
   powerful crime syndicates are involved, says Lamorde Ibrahim, the
   commission's director of operations in Lagos. A six-person group from
   his office and the drug-enforcement agency work incognito, unknown
   even to colleagues.

   The network of gangs and dealers means that drugs are increasingly
   available on Nigeria's streets. At the Lagos State Rehab and
   Vocational Training Centre former junkies tell stories of taking to
   drugs while at university, or jobless, or under pressure from the
   city's notorious gangs of "area boys". Enough cannabis to roll one
   cigarette can be found on the streets for as little as 20 naira (about
   15 cents). The UN's drugs office estimates that heroin and cocaine
   cost slightly more, at 20 to 50 naira and 80 to 100 naira a pinch.

   Reform of the drug agency may have begun to be serious. Pointing to a
   change, Mr Ipinmisho says that traffickers are often confused by their
   arrest, having been promised safe passage through the airport by
   junior officers, who can now no longer sneak them through. The
   intentions may be better, but the agency still complains of its lack
   of equipment and manpower.

   Nigeria is the only west African country on America's list of major
   drug-producing and transit countries. It is concerned enough to have
   sent Tom Schweich, the State Department's international drugs man, to
   Nigeria last month. He promised to supply the latest body-cavity X-ray
   machines to four of Nigeria's international airports. New technology
   like this will be installed first at the airports and then, more
   slowly, at ports and land borders. Not too slowly, Nigerians hope.
   Their country is already notorious for corruption and financial crime;
   the last thing it needs is narcotics too.


   The ruling party has purged itself of some of its tensions--for now


   WHAT a difference a few days make. When the ruling African National
   Congress (ANC) opened its policy conference outside Johannesburg last
   week, some boisterous delegates, singing and dancing, were waving
   flags of support for the party's number two, Jacob Zuma, who was
   sacked as South Africa's deputy president in 2005. A group of
   teachers, who had been on strike for nearly a month, picketed in front
   of the meeting hall. But by the time the get-together finished, ANC
   delegates were all back on-message, cheering wildly for President
   Thabo Mbeki, and the public-service strike was over.

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

         Mbeki and Zuma; smiles for the cameras, knives in the back

   This latest outbreak of amity and goodwill may not last long. In
   December the party has to choose its next leader, who will then stand
   an excellent chance of becoming the country's next president. The
   forthcoming decision has split the party. Mr Zuma's supporters are
   convinced that his sacking from the government, after his financial
   adviser was convicted for corruption, was nothing but a political move
   to block him from the top job. Since then he has been acquitted on
   charges of rape, though he may still be charged with corruption
   himself.

   The support inside the ANC for Mr Zuma reflects a wider resentment.
   Many party members feel that under Mr Mbeki too much power has been
   concentrated within the president's office and that government
   officials have sidelined the party. The ANC's allies in the Communist
   Party and the trade unions also feel left out. And they have
   criticised the government's economic policy for being too friendly to
   business.

   Some of these tensions seem to have been soothed by the intense
   discussions at the policy conference. One notable recommendation was
   to decentralise the appointment of mayors and provincial premiers,
   which has rested with the party's leaders since 1997. This should help
   pacify those who feel that the leadership has become too
   authoritarian.

   A pragmatic compromise was crafted around the succession. Mr Zuma's
   supporters came to the conference pushing for the ANC president to be
   made the party's automatic candidate for president of the country.
   This would have disqualified Mr Mbeki from continuing as party leader,
   as he is constitutionally barred from running for a third term as
   South Africa's president in 2009. But in the end the conference
   recommended only that it would be preferable to combine the two jobs,
   without changing the party rules to say so explicitly. And Mr Mbeki
   has pointedly not excluded the possibility of running for a third term
   as ANC president, especially if he feels that he has to block a
   successor on whom he is not keen--such as Mr Zuma.

   However, other candidates might yet emerge. Tokyo Sexwale, a prominent
   businessman and a former political prisoner, like Nelson Mandela, on
   Robben Island, has said that he would take the job if asked by the
   party. But he may have been out of the ANC's top echelons for too long
   to make it. Cyril Ramaphosa is another possibility. A former trade
   unionist turned businessman with an established international profile,
   he is still part of the party's top leadership and very popular. But
   he has kept very quiet lately and no one knows whether he really wants
   the job. Kgalema Motlanthe, the ANC's secretary-general, has also been
   touted as a possible compromise candidate.

   The ANC has once again demonstrated its ability to keep itself
   together. But as the party edges closer to December, when real
   decisions on policies and leaders will have to be made, the
   disagreements may well heat up again. And the stakes will be that much
   higher.


   The economy is shaking as government and opposition remain deadlocked

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters


   NEARLY three weeks after a bitterly disputed election, President Mwai
   Kibaki (left), who almost certainly lost it, is defiantly refusing to
   compromise, let alone bow out, in the hope that time is on his side
   and that the fury of the thwarted opposition, led by Raila Odinga and
   his Orange Democratic Movement, will gradually subside. International
   mediators and Western diplomats have made no headway. The violence,
   which has caused some 600 deaths, has lessened a bit but has certainly
   not ended.

   Mr Odinga's Oranges won at least one notable victory this week after
   Parliament reopened. Despite a determined and expensive effort by the
   president's men to win over representatives from smaller parties, the
   Oranges got their choice as speaker, the third office in the land,
   when Kenneth Marende, a lawyer, squeaked in by 105 votes to 101. "I
   need all the prayers I can get," he said afterwards.

   Indeed he does. At times the proceedings were absurd. "Let us not make
   this political," implored the presiding clerk, while the two front
   benches exchanged taunts of "thief" and "murderer". Mr Kibaki was
   ignored by the opposition when he limped in; the Oranges rose in
   applause at Mr Odinga's entry. Mr Marende's election as speaker may
   have saved lives. Nationwide Orange protests were disruptive but less
   lethal than they might have been.

   So far, Western governments have yet to recognise Mr Kibaki fully. The
   biggest aid-givers, including the United States, Britain and the
   European Union, are threatening to divert their largesse from
   government coffers unless he seeks a "meaningful settlement" with the
   opposition. It is unclear whether that means the West wants Mr Kibaki
   to step down.

   The Americans were at first readier to endorse his re-election,
   because he has been their sturdy ally in their war on terror, whereas
   Mr Odinga, who won most of Kenya's Muslim votes, is warier of an
   American alliance. Now, however, the Americans seem to have come round
   to the European and British view that Mr Kibaki should, at the very
   least, offer Mr Odinga and his party a big role in government or
   perhaps even agree to run the election again, though that seems highly
   unlikely.

   Other African governments seem loth to interfere. John Kufuor, the
   Ghanaian president who also chairs the African Union, tried to mediate
   but entirely failed to shift Mr Kibaki, whose inner circle is plainly
   dismissive of international arbitration. "We won the election and do
   not see any point in anyone coming to mediate power-sharing," says
   John Michuki, a former security minister now in charge of roads.
   Another would-be mediator, the UN's former secretary-general, Kofi
   Annan, this week conveniently came down with flu and delayed his trip
   to Kenya.

   But Mr Kibaki is not yet home and dry. His loss of the speakership
   shows how hard it will be for him to govern through Parliament. He may
   try to ignore it and run the country from State House. With loyalists
   running the finance, justice and energy ministries, plus the security
   services, he may be able to do so. But it may make him even more
   unpopular outside his Kikuyu heartland and increase the lawlessness.

   Meanwhile, the economy is fast beginning to suffer. Business in
   down-town Nairobi, the capital, and in provincial towns across the
   country, has slumped. Tea-brokers in Mombasa, Kenya's second city,
   whose port serves most of east Africa, say that another month of
   instability could ruin the city's regular auction of one the country's
   main exports.

   Asian Kenyans are especially jittery. Many in the western city of
   Kisumu, Mr Odinga's provincial capital, have fled to Uganda. Some in
   Mombasa say they want to leave Kenya for good. An exodus of Asians
   would badly hurt Kenya's economy. So would the loss of shipping
   business to Dar es Salaam in neighbouring Tanzania, where a number of
   container ships have already been diverted.

   Pictures of angry men with machetes have scared off holidaymakers from
   the coast. Some hotels have closed for the season, others are nearly
   empty. Dhows and camel rides have no takers. South of Mombasa, many
   businesses belonging to Mr Kibaki's fellow Kikuyus have been burnt.

   If Mr Kibaki wants to rescue Kenya's faltering economy, let alone mend
   its politics, he must seek a compromise with his angry opponents. It
   is not yet clear whether time is on his side--or on Mr Odinga's.


   Can rule by the people be reconciled with the sovereignty of Allah?


   "TURKEY sets a fantastic example for nations around the world to see
   where it's possible to have a democracy coexist with a great religion
   like Islam." Those were George Bush's words of welcome, this week, to
   Turkey's President Abdullah Gul.

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

              In the name of God, let's throw the rascals out

   In decades past, a Turkish leader might have been received at the
   White House with cordial remarks about his country's growing
   prosperity or its contribution to NATO. But it would have been
   strange, perhaps, not to mention religion when hosting a head of state
   who had just set a precedent that was watched with fascination by
   politically active Muslims in many parts of the world. When he became
   president, Mr Gul proved that it was possible for a pious Muslim with
   a headscarved wife to be made head of state, by a perfectly democratic
   procedure, in a country where the army is an ever-vigilant guardian
   against theocracy. For those who insist (whether their arguments are
   theological, or empirical, or both) that Islam and liberal democracy
   are quite compatible, Mr Gul's election (and Mr Bush's exuberant
   reaction to it) was a badly needed nugget of hope in a year when that
   cause has seen quite a lot of setbacks.

   Among American officialdom, confidence in the prospects for democracy
   in Muslim (and in particular, Arab) lands has fluctuated under the
   Bush administration. It reached a high point, arguably, in mid-2005,
   when Condoleezza Rice, the secretary of state, declared in Cairo that
   the bad old days of favouring stability over democracy were over--and
   then it plunged again the following January when the Islamist Hamas
   movement swept to victory in Palestine.

   For political scientists, especially those who have studied the
   phenomenon of "Muslim Democracy" in the belief that the Turkish case
   could be a precedent for others, the recent turmoil in Pakistan and
   the assassination of Benazir Bhutto have been a great tragedy in a
   pivotal country that had the potential to develop a new concordat
   between Islam and open politics.

   Vali Nasr, a professor at America's Tufts University, terms "Muslim
   Democracy" a newish and potentially decisive force in the non-Arab
   parts of the Muslim world. In his view, the recent experience of
   Turkey, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Malaysia and Indonesia all points to a
   single truth: wherever they are given the chance, Muslim Democratic
   parties (which are responsive to public opinion and thrive in an open
   political contest) can prevail over harder-line and more violent
   varieties of political Islam.

   Among the parties Mr Nasr identifies as Muslim Democratic are the
   faction of the Pakistani Muslim League that held sway until the
   military takeover in 1999; the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (in power
   till last year's coup); Malaysia's ruling UMNO party; and a cluster of
   mildly Islamic parties that share power in Indonesia (see [4]article).
   Exhibit A for Muslim Democracy is Turkey's Justice and Development
   (AK) party, which won its democratic spurs after several decades of
   sparring between generals and pious politicians. As with several other
   Muslim Democratic parties, the AK's rise reflected economic growth and
   the advent of a devout but non-fanatical middle class which resents
   the older elites of bureaucrats and generals.

   But what if any is the intellectual ground for Muslim Democracy? Roman
   Catholic thinking had to tread a long path before it reconciled its
   belief in human sinfulness with popular sovereignty; Christian
   Democracy, an important force in post-1945 Europe, was the result.

   Abdal-Hakim Murad, a British Muslim scholar, argues that Muslim
   Democrats have an easier road to travel because Islam's view of human
   nature is a less pessimistic one. But several factors have helped to
   make the Muslim debate about democracy difficult and inconclusive.
   Most of the schools of Muslim thought that have emerged over the past
   century have been intensely interested in political theory, and also
   intensely concerned with precedents set at the dawn of the Muslim era.
   But the precedents are not clear: some caliphs took power by
   inheritance, others through consensus, others by force.

   Khaled Abou El Fadl, an Egyptian-born law professor, has pointed to a
   passage from the Koran which seems to endow human beings with a
   special mandate to look after their own affairs.

     When your Lord said to the angels: "I have to place a vice-regent
     on earth," they said: "Will you place one there who will create
     disorder and shed blood, while we intone Your litanies and sanctify
     Your name?" And God said: "I know what you do not know."

   That verse, Mr Fadl has argued, seems to imply that far from sitting
   back and letting God do everything, human beings must organise their
   own society.

   Another relevant text is the story of Ali, the fourth Muslim caliph,
   whose leadership was challenged by a rival. To the fury of his zealous
   supporters, Ali agreed that conflicting claims should be submitted to
   arbitration. Posterity found Ali right and his critics wrong: human
   institutions do have a place in settling issues of state.

   From Cairo to California

   For anyone who looks to Islam's foundational texts as the ultimate
   arbiter of truth, these are resonant allusions. But arguments in
   favour of Islam's compatibility with democracy are in perpetual danger
   of being drowned out by a mixture of depressing news from Muslim lands
   and zealous ideologues on both sides of a looming civilisational
   divide.

   Whether or not they condone violence, many of the most strident
   advocates of "political Islam" still take their cue from Sayyid Qutb,
   an Egyptian thinker, executed in 1966, who regarded secular democracy
   (and all other secular forms of government, including socialism) as
   blasphemy pure and simple. In places ranging from British campuses to
   the jails and torture chambers of Uzbekistan, there are zealous
   ideologues who follow the Qutbist line that all human agencies of
   power are a violation of the sovereignty of God. Neatly converging
   with the anti-democratic zeal of these malcontents is an increasingly
   respectable argument, among sceptical Western observers of Islam,
   which holds that the Muslim faith, by its very nature, cannot be other
   than theocratic. If that is true, then encouraging moderate--in the
   sense of apolitical--versions of Islam can only be a waste of time.

   In the United States, in particular, an"essentialist" mistrust of
   Islam in all its forms has been gaining ground. One recent sign of
   this mood: when Keith Ellison from Minnesota became the first Muslim
   congressman, he was challenged, during his first television interview,
   to prove that he was not "working for our enemies".

   But in America's free-ranging debates, where the spectrum of views on
   Islam is probably wider than in any Muslim land or even in Europe,
   there are also many voices on the other side. Mr Fadl makes his case
   for the compatibility of democracy and Islam from the University of
   California at Los Angeles, probably a more secure setting than his
   native Cairo.

   Meanwhile Firas Ahmad, a columnist who co-edits a glossy Muslim
   monthly from his home in Boston, maintains that a lot of Islamic
   history--as well as the dilemmas of modern times--should be
   reconsidered in the light of the robust separation between religion
   and state which (on his reading, at least), Muslims have quite
   frequently, and cheerfully, maintained. In modern America, Muslims can
   make a big contribution to debates about greed and social justice,
   while fully respecting the country's secular constitution. And his
   favourite passages in history are the bits where believers (often
   courageous Sufi mystics) spoke truth to power, not the instances when
   pliant greybeards did favours to the sultan.

   There are, in short, many interesting things to say about Islam and
   democracy. The pity is that they are mostly being said in the West,
   not in Islam's heartland.


   Are South Africa's crime-busting Scorpions about to lose their sting?

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

                                    The people's hero, so leave him alone


   WHILE Jacob Zuma, South Africa's former deputy president who is
   accused of corruption, appeared in court this week, the fate of those
   who sent him there was also hanging in the balance. A commission
   headed by a judge, Sisi Khampepe, was hearing submissions to decide on
   the future of the Scorpions, the crime-fighting unit of the National
   Prosecuting Authority (NPA). Created in 1999 by President Thabo Mbeki
   to fight corruption and organised crime, the Scorpions may now be
   disbanded or folded into the regular police force, to the dismay of
   South Africans who want to make their country cleaner.

   The Scorpions have some impressive scalps. They helped convict Nelson
   Mandela's former wife, Winnie, of fraud; ditto the former chief whip
   of the ruling African National Congress (ANC), Tony Yengeni. And due
   to their investigations, Schabir Shaik, a businessman who advised Mr
   Zuma, was convicted in June of corruption and fraud, leading to Mr
   Zuma's sacking as deputy president. The Scorpions have a reputation as
   fearless knights chasing well-connected crooks.

   They also have their detractors. Mr Zuma's supporters say his
   prosecution is politically motivated. The police and the National
   Intelligence Agency accuse the unit of stepping on their toes and
   lacking supervision. During Mrs Khampepe's hearings, the justice
   minister, Brigitte Mabandla, who is responsible for the Scorpions,
   questioned the continued need for an entity outside the police force.
   She also said that the relations between the elite unit and other
   law-enforcement agencies had broken down "irretrievably", an
   allegation denied by Vusi Pikoli, the NPA's boss.

   For the liberal Democratic Alliance (DA), the main opposition in
   parliament, this is pure politics. It argues that the Scorpions, with
   their conviction rate of over 90%, are a success and should be left
   alone. The unit has its prosecutors, investigators and intelligence
   operatives working under one roof, and attracts high-calibre staff.
   That would rapidly cease if the Scorpions were folded into the police,
   says the DA. It also blames the government for turf wars within
   law-enforcement agencies and failures of accountability. The
   ministerial committee meant to keep an eye on such issues failed to
   convene until last year.

   The hearings are due to conclude this week. Once the commission's
   suggestions are on his desk, Mr Mbeki must decide on the Scorpions'
   fate. With Mr Zuma's trial not expected until next year, they may not
   survive to see the conclusion of their most prominent case.


   After China and America, it is Europe's turn to woo Africa

   IT IS a coincidence, but an appropriate one nonetheless, that Europe
   should try to relaunch its relations with Africa in Lisbon. It was
   from here, in 1415, that Portuguese ships first set out to begin the
   European exploration and conquest of the dark continent; and it will
   be here on December 8th that politicians from 53 African and 27
   European countries will gather at a summit to bury the old colonial
   relationships in favour of something more modern and "equal", as the
   Europeans like to put it.

   The get-together is the idea of the Portuguese, who currently hold the
   EU presidency; they see this first EU-Africa summit since 2000 as the
   capstone of their six-month tenure. They accept that the summit
   carries a "political price": the one-man-against-the-rest EU split
   caused by the refusal of Britain's prime minister, Gordon Brown, to
   attend, in protest against the presence of Zimbabwe's president,
   Robert Mugabe. But, the Portuguese say, they had little option. China,
   and others, have forced their hand.

   For the Europeans are increasingly worried that they are losing both
   trade and clout on a continent that they used to regard as their own
   backyard. Over the past five years Europe has watched with a mixture
   of shock and awe as resource-hungry China has swept across a grateful
   continent, taking oil and minerals in exchange for anything the
   Africans want, be it money now, money later, ports or roads.
   African-Chinese trade has increased five-fold over that time to more
   than $50 billion last year. Europe's long-standing links mean that it
   is still Africa's biggest trading partner, but the Chinese are
   catching up fast. As a stark example of China's new muscle, in October
   the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China paid $5.6 billion for a
   20% stake in Standard Bank of South Africa--the biggest single
   investment ever made on the continent.

   And the Chinese are not the only newcomers. India has been buying up
   oil and mineral concessions in countries such as Sudan and Nigeria.
   America has revived its interest in Africa: it wants to take 25% of
   its oil supply from there to decrease its dependence on the Middle
   East. America has also been recruiting new allies, such as Mali and
   Ethiopia, in its fight against Islamist terrorism on the continent.

   All this has left Africa's leaders in the novel position of being able
   to pick their friends rather than being dictated to by others, be they
   white development economists or the IMF. And they are enjoying every
   minute of it. As Shamsudeen Usman, Nigeria's minister of finance,
   says: "Nigeria is becoming a beautiful bride. What is happening is the
   Chinese, the Koreans, everyone is coming around, and if European
   companies do not wake up, they will see that most of the best
   businesses are taken. For us, really, whoever gives the best terms,
   the best conditions, and is willing to come and invest, those are the
   ones that we'll do business with."

   Europe, used to privileged access to African markets and politics, has
   been left floundering by the new competition. Europeans complain that
   China damages Africa by not linking its loans and investments to
   improvements in government and human rights, as the worthy Europeans
   do. But Africans are dismissive: as one official says, "Europe is
   jealous. They say we have gotten a new colonial master, but our old
   one wasn't so good."

   Getting hung up on democracy

   The Lisbon summit will thus be an explicit counterpoint to the
   China-Africa summit of November 2006, when China cemented its new
   relationship with a promise of yet more money. Now the Europeans will
   try to woo the beautiful bride and her dowry of hydrocarbons back from
   Beijing. Europe's goodies will be a mix of concessions and
   inducements.

   The main concession, a nod to the Chinese, is to be less critical of
   African regimes that are a bit light-fingered, or disdainful of
   human-rights. Joo Cravinho, the Portuguese minister responsible for
   the summit, contends that the Europeans have been "excessively
   simplistic" in insisting on European models of government for Africa.
   Instead, Europe will in future "focus on the essence of government,
   rather than the forms, [and be] less hung-up on particular forms of
   decision-making."

   Getting into the spirit, Europe overturned its own travel ban on Mr
   Mugabe, a complete stranger to decent behaviour, to allow him to
   attend the summit, even at the expense of losing the British
   government. Mr Mugabe will be lectured on his sins--and is then free
   to join in the cuddly group photographs. This is the "political price"
   that Europe feels it has to pay for warding off the Chinese. Sudan's
   president, Omar al-Bashir, will also be at the summit, but there are
   no plans to nag him about his army's brutality in Darfur.

   Of the new inducements, trade deals called Economic Partnership
   Agreements are the ones Europe thinks will help Africa most. The EU
   argues that these are good for development, offering African countries
   full access to the European market while allowing them to keep about
   20% of their own markets closed to protect fragile domestic
   industries. But some African countries, such as South Africa and
   Nigeria, argue that they are being bullied and threatened into making
   agreements before they are ready; the EU insists all must be wrapped
   up by the end of the year. The Europeans argue that the deals are
   designed to encourage regional integration in Africa. The Africans
   retort that by making separate deals with different countries they are
   doing exactly the opposite.

   Europe's new insouciance about human rights will worry many,
   especially those suffering atrocities in Zimbabwe and Darfur, while
   the inducements hardly look tempting. Europe needs to do much better
   than this if it is to win the bride.


   Why George Bush, touring the Middle East this week, is finding the
   Arabs in a gloomy mood

   IT IS not easy to be an Arab these days. If you are old, the place
   where you live is likely to have changed so much that little seems
   friendly and familiar. If you are young, years of rote learning in
   dreary state schools did not prepare you well for this new world. In
   your own country you have few rights. Travel abroad and they take you
   for a terrorist. Even your leaders don't count for much in the wider
   world. Some are big on money, others on bombast, but few are inspiring
   or visionary.

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

   These are gross generalisations, of course. Huge differences persist
   among 300m-odd Arabic speakers and 22 countries of the Arab League.
   With oil prices touching record highs, some Arab economies are
   booming. The gulf between a Darfuri refugee and a Porsche-driving
   financier in Dubai is as great as between any two people on earth. Yet
   to travel through the Arab world right now is to experience a peculiar
   sameness of spirit. Particularly among people under 30, who make up
   the vast majority of Arabs, the mood is one of disgruntlement and
   doubt.

   Factors that contribute to the gloom include the discombobulating
   impact of one of the world's fastest population growth rates, failing
   public-education systems and the resilience of social traditions often
   ill-suited to the urban lifestyle that is now the Arab norm. But it is
   politics above all that shapes this generation's discontent.

   In the world at large, things have not looked good for the Arabs for a
   long time. The generation that emerged after the second world war came
   to believe in the inevitability of an Arab renaissance after centuries
   of domination by Ottoman Turks and European imperialists. Within this
   scheme of Arab progress, the problem of Palestine stuck out like a
   troublesome nail. Defeat in the 1967 war with Israel shattered many
   dreams. Yet even after Israel's victory Palestine remained a
   touchstone for Arabs everywhere. Sooner or later, it was felt, justice
   would be done.

   That confidence has taken a beating of late. Few Arabs expect the
   peace initiative George Bush launched in Annapolis last November to
   achieve anything. And the schism between Hamas and Fatah has shaken
   underlying assumptions. If the Palestinians cannot unite in their own
   cause, why should other Arabs help them? And which side to support?
   For fellow Arabs, as for Palestinians themselves, the clash between a
   heart that cries "resist" and a head that counsels compromise has
   seldom been more perplexing.

   As in Palestine, so in Iraq. In 2003 America's invasion produced all
   but universal Arab outrage. From afar, Iraqi "resistance" looked both
   natural and noble. But as Iraq has grown messier, the rights and
   wrongs have grown harder for Arabs to disentangle. There are few
   heroes in a cast that includes mass killers from al-Qaeda, brutal Shia
   militias, criminal gangs, Kurdish separatists and corrupt politicians
   as well as the American occupiers.

   Elsewhere in the region, it has become harder for thoughtful Arabs to
   blame the government-inspired slaughter in the Darfur region of Sudan
   or the stalemate between Lebanon's religious sects on a nefarious
   American foreign policy. Many Arabs still see Mr Bush's "war on
   terrorism" as a crusade against Islam. But many also note that
   al-Qaeda-style jihadism has killed more Muslims, from Morocco to Saudi
   Arabia to the squalid Palestinian refugee camps of Lebanon, than
   "infidels".

   In past decades, Arabs looked to leaders for guidance. Egypt's Gamal
   Abdel Nasser and Anwar Sadat, Tunisia's modernising secularist, Habib
   Bourguiba, and Kings Hussein of Jordan, Hassan II of Morocco and
   Faisal of Saudi Arabia were all flawed men. Yet they, and even
   monsters such as Saddam Hussein and Hafez Assad, enjoyed some popular
   appeal as nation-builders. Most of today's leaders, by contrast, lack
   an inspirational project. Nor is any single country a natural leader
   of the Arabs. Egypt under the 26-year-long rule of Hosni Mubarak is no
   longer the champion of "Arabism". Saudi Arabia has vast oil wealth but
   a mixed record in diplomacy: its attempt last year to reconcile Fatah
   and Hamas unravelled with humiliating speed.

   It may be a good thing that the personality-based leadership of the
   1960s and 1970s has fallen out of fashion. Unfortunately, it has not
   been replaced by more institutionally-based systems of rule, let
   alone--for all the aid and speechifying of Western do-gooders--by
   democracy. Elections are more frequent and opposition parties and the
   press somewhat freer. But this is often a case of adopting the outward
   shape of reform without the substance. Regimes point to the existence
   of parliaments, while hiding the tricks used to pack them with friends
   and exclude real opposition. They can trumpet privatisation programmes
   that reduce the role of the state, while obscuring the fact that many
   of the beneficiaries are regime cronies.

   The marginally freer press makes for more colourful news-stands. But
   some opening was probably inescapable, due to the impact of
   hard-to-block new media, via satellites and the internet. Governments
   have simply switched from absolute control of information, for example
   through state television monopolies, to enacting laws that criminalise
   "spreading false information" or "disrespecting state institutions".
   The supposedly liberalising, pro-Western governments of Morocco,
   Jordan, Tunisia and Egypt have all used such means to stifle dissent.
   Syria under Hafez Assad used to hurl dissidents into prison without
   much ado. His "modernising" son Bashar has them tried first. But they
   still end up in the slammer.

   Stratagems such as these suck the vitality out of politics. Morocco is
   one of the bolder Arab reformers. Yet despite rising prosperity, a
   relatively free press and multi-party elections, Moroccans have grown
   increasingly sceptical of a political process that remains tightly, if
   elegantly, circumscribed. As a result, voter turnout has steadily
   declined over the past two decades. In Egypt, fewer than one in ten
   voters bothered to turn out for recent polls.

   Political scientists have long blamed oil wealth--and the rentier
   economy that so often goes along with it--for the survival of Arab
   authoritarianism. No taxation without representation, said America's
   revolutionaries. Arab governments have inverted this refrain: by
   appropriating national energy resources and other rents, they neatly
   absolve themselves of the need to levy heavy taxes and therefore to
   win the consent of the governed.

   The devil you know

   A less obvious source of state power is a pervasive fear of what might
   happen in its absence. In many Arab countries loyalty to the state is
   weaker than loyalty to a sub-grouping based on kinship, ethnicity,
   religion or region. This is hardly a unique problem; many successful
   democracies still struggle with it. But Muslims have, in addition, yet
   to resolve the essential question of whether laws should emanate from
   the people or from God (see [3]article).

   Such points may seem abstract but they have practical consequences. In
   most Arab countries, regimes hold power by virtue of tradition or
   through military-backed movements that claim to represent the will of
   the masses. Where top-down authority collapses, as it did in
   post-Saddam Iraq or in the Palestinian territories after Arafat, it
   has been very hard for bottom-up politics to repair the damage.

   In such circumstances, it is not surprising that people prefer the
   devil they know to the fitna (communal strife) or fawda (chaos) that
   seem all too likely to replace it. This makes Arabs suspicious not
   just of Western advocates of democracy but also of parties such as the
   Muslim Brotherhood, which advocate change in the name of Islam. It is
   instructive to note that when such movements are confronted with
   bread-and-butter issues they tend to split between pragmatists and
   ideologues, leaving supporters befuddled. Even Egypt's highly
   disciplined Muslim Brothers, for example, are riven by tensions
   between older hardliners and younger liberals.

   The bleakness of political prospects is only one aspect of the current
   Arab malaise. The rigid social structures and strong family ties that
   form part of the cohesive strength of Arab societies have negative
   consequences too. Sex out of wedlock remains taboo, yet the cost of
   lavish weddings, hefty dowry payments and the bridal requirement of a
   furnished, paid-for home have pushed the average age of marriage in
   many Arab countries into the 30s. The resulting frustration is an
   underlying cause of troubles from youth delinquency to religious
   extremism. Paternalistic social norms hold women back, even though
   their legal status is improving.

   Let them learn about the world

   Much fanfare has surrounded the release, over the past few years, of a
   series of UN-sponsored reports on human development painting a picture
   of Arab shortcomings that range from women's treatment to the feeble
   trickle of translation into Arabic of new knowledge. An oft-quoted
   statistic from the reports is that the amount of literature translated
   into Spanish in a single year exceeds the entire corpus of what has
   been translated into Arabic in 1,000 years.

   If there is a common thread in many of these failings, it is poor
   education. Studies show a strong link between levels of schooling and
   attitudes to women's rights. Harder to prove, but equally valid by
   anecdotal evidence, is a link between breadth of reading and tolerance
   of diversity. Religious texts still out-sell every other form of
   literature in most Arab countries. This may promote punctilious
   practice of the faith, but hardly equips people for a bewildering
   world of ever-increasing choice.

   Although the proportion of Arabs with university degrees is growing
   rapidly, quality lags far behind. An annual ranking of the world's top
   500 universities, compiled by Shanghai's Jiao Tong University,
   includes only one Arab institution compared with seven universities in
   tiny Israel.

   Some Arab governments are at last responding. Qatar and Saudi Arabia
   have hired well-known consulting firms to revamp public-school systems
   designed in the 1950s. Even Syria has relaxed the state monopoly of
   higher education. Private universities are flourishing everywhere,
   sometimes with generous state aid. Dubai's Sheikh Muhammad Maktoum has
   pledged $10 billion to create a foundation to advance knowledge. Saudi
   Arabia has committed some $3 billion to build what officials promise
   will be a world-class postgraduate institute that will be beyond the
   supervision of the religiously conservative education ministry, and
   where men and women will be allowed to mingle.

   Another cause for hope, just now, is the rapid growth of most Arab
   economies. For each of the past six years the Arab world has, by some
   estimates, grown faster by at least a percentage point than the world
   as a whole. Record oil prices have helped a lot. So has demography:
   birth-rates are falling after a period of high growth, increasing the
   proportion of wage earners to dependants. This has boosted consumer
   industries, as have reforms to ease investment and trade. Give me five
   more years of 7% growth, one Egyptian minister is fond of saying, and
   many of our other problems will fade. Maybe.


   Will the United States and Iran really start talking, if only about
   Iraq?


   IT SEEMS increasingly likely, after 28 years of formal silence (with
   just the occasional back-channel mutterings and whispers), that
   American and Iranian officials will sit down together, if only to talk
   about Iraq. The two sides are expected to meet, perhaps only at
   ambassadorial level to begin with, on May 28th in Baghdad. However big
   the caveats, it will be a breakthrough. Each side is keen to assert it
   has not flip-flopped. Neither side is sure where such talks might
   lead.

   In fact, the Americans have been saying for some time they would talk
   to Iran--but only about Iraq, not about the Islamic Republic's nuclear
   plans, so long as the Iranians refuse to suspend their enrichment of
   uranium. The rulers in Tehran have also occasionally expressed a
   readiness to engage in such talks. But whenever the prospect has
   loomed large they have backed off. Now, it seems, the Iranians--at
   least, some parts of its fractious establishment--are becoming keener.
   Some members of Iran's parliament have even begun collecting
   signatures to form an Iranian-American friendship committee.

   The American establishment has been fractious too. The vice-president,
   Dick Cheney, sounded as tough towards Iran as ever during a trip to
   the Gulf states last week. But the State Department, under Condoleezza
   Rice, is plainly becoming more flexible. Robert Gates, the newish
   secretary of defence, seems to have swung the Pentagon's weight behind
   Ms Rice.

   The latest diplomatic surge gained momentum earlier this month at an
   international conference on Iraq in the Egyptian resort of Sharm
   el-Sheikh. The Egyptian hosts seated Iran's foreign minister,
   Manouchehr Mottaki, opposite Ms Rice, at a dinner, in the hope that
   the pair might exchange a word or two. But the Iranian walked out in a
   huff, complaining later that the event failed to meet "Islamic
   standards", an apparent reference to a female Ukrainian violinist who
   was wearing a supposedly immodest scarlet dress. Other diplomats
   present thought he may have disliked being bounced unceremoniously
   into a high-level summit.

   But this week things moved on. Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad,
   said his government was "prepared and ready" to talk to America, while
   insisting that their troops should "pack their bags" and leave Iraq
   and the Gulf region forthwith.

   It will still be hard to agree, beforehand, on the agenda, even with
   nuclear issues kept off it. The Iranians would be loth to discuss an
   issue that particularly grates with the Americans: the help Iran
   apparently gives to Iraqi Shia militias who plant roadside bombs that
   kill American troops.

   And it will be hard to detach the question of Iraq completely from the
   Iranian nuclear one. Iran keeps its links with Iraq's Shia militias so
   that, if America were to bomb Iran's nuclear facilities, Iran would be
   able to make things even nastier for America in Iraq. It is highly
   unlikely that America would be able to persuade Iran to break those
   links altogether.

   Iran does have pressing if lesser grievances that could be more easily
   dealt with if the two sides did meet. One concerns five Iranians in
   Iraq who the Iranian government insists are diplomats but whom the
   Americans accuse of helping to arm Iraqi militants--and therefore
   arrested, in the Kurdish capital, Arbil.

   Iran has also long wanted the Americans to acknowledge that it has its
   own legitimate security interests in the region, some of them in Iraq.
   And if Iran and America were ever to come to a "grand bargain" that
   did include the nuclear issue, Iran would also expect America to
   disavow any intention of promoting regime change in Tehran and to stop
   helping opposition groups. That prospect is far off.

   Meanwhile, the Americans are still struggling to enlist the help of
   other nearby countries to stabilise Iraq, where the war is as bloody
   as ever. At Sharm el-Sheikh, they had hoped to get firmer promises
   from countries such as Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to forgive the $50
   billion or so of debt that Iraq estimates it owes; only vague noises
   were forthcoming. The Saudis say that, before they start being
   generous, the Iraqi government should try harder to accommodate Iraq's
   Sunni Arabs. And Russia first wants Iraq to recognise a Saddam-era oil
   contract.

   Yet the Sharm el-Sheikh meeting was a bit more fruitful than other
   attempts to get the outside world to help Iraq. The Saudis, for
   example, have more or less admitted that the new political order, led
   by Iraq's Shias, is there to stay. And American diplomats say they had
   a useful talk with the Syrians. As Syria seems to be edging out of its
   isolation in the region, it may--to please the Americans--be prepared
   to do more to stem the flow of people and munitions across the border
   to insurgents in Iraq.

   A new factor is that Iraq's neighbours guess that America is
   increasingly likely to leave Iraq within the next two years,
   especially if a Democratic president takes office. That prospect is
   beginning to concentrate Arab minds. Some fear that Iraq's sectarian
   mayhem could spread dangerously beyond its borders. Most of Iraq's
   nervous Arab neighbours do not want a bloody American-Iranian bust-up.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=40684888?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=9466417
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   Fears grow of an alliance between al-Qaeda and home-grown terrorists 


   IN THE rugged hills of the interior, Algeria's security services have
   been busy bombarding, encircling, flushing out and killing rebels who
   are reputed to have joined the nebulous ranks of al-Qaeda. An
   enthusiastic press reports every twist and turn of the great
   offensive. In the past three weeks alone, the alleged mastermind of a
   pair of recent suicide-bombings is said to have been slain, an
   important emir from the south has turned himself in and dozens of
   people--mostly rebels, but also a few soldiers--have been reported
   killed in army crackdowns across the north of the country.

   This is the government's latest response to a noticeable increase in
   terrorist attacks following the forging of an alliance last September
   between the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat, the remnants of
   Algeria's Islamist insurgency in the 1990s, and al-Qaeda. Four months
   later the Salafist group, better known by its French acronym GSPC,
   changed its name to the al-Qaeda Organisation in the Islamic Maghreb.
   After some co-ordinated attacks on police stations and a couple of
   roadside bombs targeting foreign workers, on April 11th the group
   claimed a triple suicide-bombing in the capital that hit not only a
   police station but also the building that houses the offices of both
   the prime minister and the interior minister. Foreign fighters have
   also been picked up near the Tunisian border. In July a
   suicide-bombing struck an army barracks 40 miles (64km) south-east of
   Algiers, followed a few days later by a prolonged and spectacular
   night-time shoot-out at a military police station in Kabylia.

   April's attacks in the capital prompted a shift in government tactics.
   For several years, ministers had talked up a peace and reconciliation
   plan, brushing off terrorism as nothing more than a "residual"
   problem. But in an independence day speech last month, President
   Abdelaziz Bouteflika called for the fight against terrorism to be
   pursued "without reprieve", heralding the new, more intensive military
   campaign. The police chief, Ali Tounsi, whose house was targeted in
   April by a car bomb that failed to detonate, has likened the progress
   of the security forces to a "steamroller". The local press, often cosy
   with the security services, talks frequently of the imminent defeat of
   the former GSPC, and even of al-Qaeda's failure to implant itself in
   north Africa generally.

   This may be too optimistic. Algeria's insurgency is a shadow of what
   it was just a few years ago but it has, nonetheless, been given fresh
   heart by the al-Qaeda alliance. Some of the country's many unemployed
   and disenchanted youths may have been lured into jihadism by slick
   propaganda and a global cause.

   Despite this, the pattern of the violence so far suggests that
   Algeria's terrorism is still mostly a local affair, rooted in the
   bloody civil conflict of the 1990s. Its principal targets remain the
   army and police and its principal financing comes from local crime,
   including kidnapping. Little evidence has emerged of operational links
   between the Maghreb's terrorists and al-Qaeda's global network. Still,
   the Maghreb is close to Europe. And that makes any scent of al-Qaeda a
   distinct worry for the wider world.


   Old suspicions and new links

   RELATIONS between Iran's Shia revolutionaries and the rich,
   Sunni-dominated, American-protected Arabian monarchies of the Persian
   Gulf have never been easy. After America's invasion of Iraq in 2003,
   and Iran's election of the fire-breathing Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as
   president in 2005, they grew markedly worse. Arab fears of Iran's
   regional ambitions, its influence over Shia minorities and its nuclear
   programme have lately been matched by Iranian worries about the
   loyalty of its own Arabs and the possibility of an attack launched
   from the American bases that speckle the opposite shore.

   But recent events signal a possible change. On the same day on which a
   new American National Intelligence Estimate overturned previous
   assertions that Iran is actively pursuing nuclear weapons, President
   Ahmadinejad made a first-ever appearance as a guest at the annual
   summit of the Gulf Co-operation Council (GCC), a body created in 1981
   largely with the goal of containing revolutionary Iran. Soon after the
   summit meeting, Saudi Arabia, the biggest by far of the GCC's six
   member states and long the most hostile to Iran, invited Mr
   Ahmadinejad to take part in the annual haj pilgrimage to Mecca.
   Another Arab heavyweight, Egypt, has also joined the charm offensive,
   sending its first high-level delegation to Iran in several years.

   Cross-Gulf suspicions, however, have not suddenly evaporated. Like
   many Western governments, the Gulf monarchies remain concerned that
   Iran's nuclear programme is oddly shaped for civilian-only purposes
   (see [3]article). Arab leaders continue to charge Iran with a host of
   misdemeanours, ranging from alleged meddling in Iraq, Lebanon and
   Palestine to occupying a trio of mid-Gulf islands claimed by the
   United Arab Emirates (UAE). Mr Ahmadinejad's proposal, at the summit,
   to pursue a regional security pact "without foreign influence" was
   viewed sceptically, as merely a way for Iran to replace America as the
   Gulf's guardian.

   Still, there is relief over the lessening of tensions. However much
   they dislike Iran's mullahs, Gulf Arabs dislike more the idea of
   getting caught up in a war between Iran and America. In recent months
   they have not been especially happy with their erstwhile American
   ally, despite the Bush administration's belated effort to address Arab
   concerns over Palestine and to disentangle itself from Iraq. Earlier
   this year, for instance, the parliament of Bahrain, an island state
   that hosts America's Fifth Fleet, passed a non-binding motion banning
   the use of its territory for any attack on Iran.

   Economic considerations are also playing their part. Cross-Gulf trade
   is growing fast. Bahrain itself recently signed a deal to import
   Iranian natural gas. And this link pales by comparison with the
   flourishing trade between Iran and Dubai, the most mercantile of the
   seven emirates that make up the UAE.

   Partly because of sanctions, and partly because of the restrictive
   business environment in Iran, tiny Dubai has become a vital lifeline
   for its vast neighbour. As many as 400,000 Iranian expatriates now
   live in the UAE, with nearly 9,000 part-Iranian-owned firms registered
   with the Dubai Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Iran is the main
   destination for exports from Dubai, with much of the volume hauled by
   the scores of picturesque dhows that line the city-state's Creek. The
   Iranian leadership likes to paint this relationship as one that
   benefits Gulf Arabs more than itself. But with its own inefficient
   economy foundering, and with the GCC countries jointly wielding
   hundreds of billions of dollars in investment capital, it is the Arabs
   who now carry greater clout.


   Iraq's Kurds have never had it so good. But they still have a long way
   to go before securing a safe and stable, let alone democratic, future


   DURING a recent voyage around Iraqi Kurdistan, not a single sign or
   hint that the place is officially part of a federal Iraq was in
   evidence. Landing at Erbil International Airport (as the Kurds call
   it, invariably also noting that it has one of the longest runways in
   the world), you see no shadow of an Iraqi, as opposed to Kurdish,
   presence. You show your passport or offer your bags for inspection to
   officers bearing bright Kurdish insignia on crisp uniforms.

   In the past month, virtually no insurgent violence has been recorded
   in Iraqi Kurdistan, bar a shocking but isolated spate of
   suicide-bombings that killed more than 400 members of the Yazidi sect
   in two villages near Sinjar, on the fringe of the area controlled by
   the Kurds. Otherwise, the last big attacks were in May--one in Erbil,
   the Kurds' capital, the other in a town of mixed population, Makhmour,
   on the contested western edge of the region, killing at least 30
   people.

   In the rest of Iraq, by contrast, nearly a thousand civilians and
   insurgents have been killed in the same period, along with more than
   70 American soldiers. There are no American forces in Iraqi Kurdistan,
   bar a handful guarding a small American diplomatic compound outside
   Erbil. The only sizeable foreign military presence is a South Korean
   force of around 1,200, which spends much of its time helping with
   construction and IT. In short, Iraqi Kurdistan is a haven of peace in
   a sea of turmoil.

   Travellers arriving at Erbil airport jostle with Lebanese bankers,
   Norwegian oilmen and Dubai traders sniffing for business; most now
   give bomb-ridden Baghdad, 250 miles (400km) to the south, a wide
   berth. At the eight or nine security checkpoints through which you
   pass on the road from Erbil to Sulaymaniyah, the two main cities of
   Iraq's Kurdistan Region, as international documents officially call
   it, you never spot the name of Iraq on a military or police badge.

   Arabic is used hardly at all; few Kurds under 25 understand more than
   a smattering of it. Schools are starting to teach English as much as
   Arabic as a second language. Increasingly, you are expected to call
   Erbil by its Kurdish name, Hawler (pronounced, roughly, "How-lair").
   Above all, the Iraqi flag, in a region where flags matter mightily,
   flutters nowhere. It has no place at the airport or over any official
   building, such as the Kurds' lively parliament.

   The issue of maps (above) is just as toxic and tricky. Where, indeed,
   are the borders of Iraqi Kurdistan (let alone those of the parts of
   Turkey, Iran and Syria, where another 21m-plus Kurds reside, alongside
   4.6m Iraqi ones)? The Iraqi Kurds' standard map that hangs nowadays on
   ministry walls, in restaurants and for sale in kiosks shows Iraqi
   Kurdistan stretching a lot further than the area currently under the
   Kurds' control.

   It sweeps in an arc from Sinjar and Zakho, in the north-west, near the
   border with Turkey, brushes Mosul's once largely Kurdish east side,
   then runs down the east bank of the river Tigris, taking in the whole
   of the contested province of Kirkuk (which Arab maps call Tamim), then
   runs on along the Hamrin mountains north-east of Baghdad, all the way
   down to a sliver of land east of the Iraqi capital, abutting the
   Iranian border near the town of Badreh.

   Even the most acquisitively nationalist Kurds do not take this maximal
   map seriously. For one thing, some of it is inhabited predominantly by
   Arabs--who would not be trusted in Kurdistan. But most Kurds do demand
   fat chunks of extra territory, especially but not only in Kirkuk
   province, which they were deprived of by Saddam when he Arabised
   Kurdish lands by expelling Kurds and bringing in Arab settlers from
   Iraq's south and centre.

   It is hard to say exactly where Kurdish influence or control now
   extends, though a "green line" has roughly demarcated their zone since
   the end of the first Gulf war in 1991, giving Kurds an area in which
   they could safely govern themselves. But after the American invasion
   of 2003 they extended their zone of influence, marked by their own
   checkpoints (technically manned by the Iraqi army but actually by
   Kurdish units of it), in predominantly Kurdish areas west and south of
   the green line, which has become blurred and sporadically shifts.

   The Iraqi Kurds' standard map tactfully omits to paint the Greater
   Kurdistan where their ethnic brethren predominate in neighbouring
   Turkey (14m of them), Iran (some 6m) and Syria (1m). It certainly does
   not lay claim, as dreamers of a unified Greater Kurdistan do, to a
   fantastical spur of land that would jut across south-eastern Turkey
   and northern Syria to reach the Mediterranean, plus another tongue of
   territory stretching south-eastwards to let Kurds dip their toes in
   the Persian Gulf beyond Basra. That would be going too far.

   But for every Iraqi Kurd, Article 140 of the Iraqi constitution that
   was endorsed in an Iraq-wide referendum in late 2005 is a national
   mantra repeated in almost every political conversation. That article
   provides for a further referendum, following a census and a supposedly
   voluntary exchange of populations known optimistically as
   "normalisation", to determine whether people in Kirkuk province "and
   other disputed territories" want to stay as part of the Arab-ruled
   part of Iraq or join Kurdistan or perhaps, in the case of Kirkuk, live
   in a specially administered region.

   Too many Kirkuks

   That census, due to have been completed by the end of July, has barely
   begun. Most Kurdish politicians still insist publicly that the
   December 31st deadline for holding the referendum will, as the
   constitution says, be met. In private, most admit it will not. What
   they dread most is an open-ended postponement which may, they fear,
   let Kirkuk, with some 5% of the world's oil reserves, slip out of
   their grasp.

   Nor has it been decided just what questions would be asked, nor
   whether the people's wishes would be assessed district by district or
   province-wide. Officially, the Kurds want the whole province. In fact,
   many realise it would be more sensible to take just those districts
   where they are a large majority rather than incorporate slices of
   territory full of sullen Sunni Arabs who might make Kurdistan
   unworkable. At the least, the Kurds would take back the large chunks
   of Kirkuk province that Saddam gerrymandered out of the old Kurdish
   region. But the blanket of stability covering the area of Iraqi
   Kurdistan recognised by the government in Baghdad emphatically
   excludes Kirkuk city, now sealed off from the rest of Kurdistan by a
   series of intrusive checkpoints.

   Indeed, the tinderbox city at the heart of the matter is fizzling ever
   more menacingly. Per head of population, acts of violence are now more
   frequent there than in bloody Baghdad, according to a Western diplomat
   who monitors the score. Moreover, in some nearby towns in Kirkuk
   province to the south and west of the city, such as Arab-dominated
   Hawija, al-Qaeda and Saddam loyalists have established a brooding
   presence.

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

                                 Talabani and Barzani, pals for the cause

   Though the Kurds' line of influence (if not control) extends into some
   two-thirds of Kirkuk province, there are plenty of blurred areas.
   Kurds control the towns of Chamchamal, Kifri and Kalar, to the east of
   Kirkuk city, and hold sway over Khaniquin, near the border with Iran.
   But other towns, such as Tuz Kurmatu, which has a strong and twitchy
   Turkoman populace, and Dubus, where Arabs predominate, resist what
   they see as the Kurds' expansion into Kirkuk province's southern half.

   The oil factor is important but not crucial: if Kurdistan stays part
   of a federal Iraq, the Arabs in non-oil-rich parts of Iraq would still
   get a fair share of oil revenues, whether or not Kirkuk is run by the
   Kurds. The Kurds have agreed that they would get 17% of Iraq's oil
   income from fields already in operation. But they are still arguing
   with the authorities in Baghdad over the management, exploration and
   contracts in unexploited or not-yet-discovered fields.

   Economically viable?

   Several oil companies, mostly mid-sized and small independent ones,
   have signed deals with the Kurdistan regional government, and a dozen
   more are in negotiation, all waiting impatiently for the government in
   Baghdad to give the green light. The Kurds say they can dish out
   export permits, though the authorities in Baghdad disagree. More to
   the point, the Kurds do not control the existing pipelines for export.
   So they want to build their own "feeder" pipelines to join the
   national one just before it reaches the Turkish border. Several
   Western firms hope to get in on this act.

   Plainly, the Kurds are seeking to be as independent in economics as a
   landlocked country can be: a huge challenge. From 1991 until 2003,
   when the Americans invaded, the Kurds depended on smuggling, minimal
   trade with neighbouring countries, foreign handouts and a share (often
   stingily and belatedly distributed) of the UN's corrupt and
   maladministered oil-for-food programme. In the past few years they
   have tried valiantly to create an economy of their own. But they are
   starting almost from scratch.

   Farming was virtually destroyed by Saddam. According to today's
   planning minister, the percentage of Kurds in agriculture has dropped
   from some 60% to around 10% in the past generation. During his Anfal
   (Spoils) campaign to suppress the rebellious Kurds in the late 1980s,
   Saddam's forces destroyed more than 4,000 villages and killed tens of
   thousands of civilians--180,000, according to the Kurds.

   There is no banking ("We have no access to money," says Osman Shwani,
   the planning minister), no insurance, no postal service and in the
   past few years the Kurds' budget has entirely lacked public scrutiny.
   Commercial law is less than rudimentary. There is a gaping lack of
   statistics. Mr Shwani freely admits he does not know the size of
   Kurdistan's GDP.

   Starting from zero

   There is virtually no tax system. In theory, income tax of between 3%
   and 10% is paid by salaried earners. "But no one has ever paid taxes,"
   says Mr Shwani. One of the biggest brakes on the economy is the vast
   proportion of people on the public payroll, which gobbles up about
   three-quarters of the budget.

   But things are starting to move in the right direction. Parliament,
   elected five times since 1992, has had vigorous debates over
   Kurdistan's own oil laws--on how, for instance, to handle contracts
   with foreign investors. But even they will depend to a degree on
   harmonisation with the oil laws still not passed by a dismally weak
   and divided central government in Baghdad.

   Another huge problem for Iraqi Kurdistan is the fact that it has been
   run, since 1991, by two rival administrations. In the provinces of
   Dohuk and Erbil, the Barzani family, which runs the Kurdistan
   Democratic Party (KDP), has called the shots for generations. To the
   east, the province of Sulaymaniyah has been run by the Patriotic Union
   of Kurdistan (PUK), run by Jalal Talabani; this, too, has become
   something of a family affair. In the late 1990s, the two outfits
   fought a vicious civil war, in which at least 3,000 people--some put
   the figure at more than 10,000--were killed.

   To a large degree, the party and the union are tribal fiefs, with
   power, money and even land distributed from the top by the ruling
   families. While Mr Talabani is currently president of federal Iraq,
   Massoud Barzani is president of Kurdistan; his nephew, Nechirvan
   Barzani, is its prime minister; Massoud's son, Masrur Barzani, heads
   the powerful intelligence service. At the end of the year, one of Mr
   Talabani's men is supposed to take over as Kurdistan's prime minister.
   No one is sure whether that will happen smoothly.

   Moreover, the notion that Iraqi Kurdistan is a haven of democracy is
   far-fetched. The two fiefs control virtually all public activity,
   including the media, hitherto with remarkably little scrutiny;
   outright opposition has invariably been squeezed out, often amid
   accusations of betraying the sacred cause of Kurdistan.
   Patronage--some call it corruption--is the norm. The Islamists, with a
   reputation for honesty, are the third force, small for now, but
   waiting in the wings. If Kurdistan is to thrive, its own politics must
   loosen up and become more open, if not a Western-style free-for-all.

   Real country, real democracy?

   Yet on both scores--democracy and unity--there has been progress. The
   two administrations are undergoing a merger. All but three ministries
   have joined up (the last to unite being the most awkward: defence,
   interior and finance). On the democracy front, parliament, which
   includes four small blocks of opposition parties with the Islamists to
   the fore, has lively debates and is making government more
   accountable. A decent constitution for the region is set to enshrine
   an array of rights, including for Christians, Yazidis (a sect of their
   own) and other minorities in Kurdistan.

   Two small but plucky opposition newspapers give an airing to the
   peccadillos of the party duopoly. And even some of the party-owned
   media outlets--for instance, Kurdsat TV, owned and run by Mr
   Talabani's modernising wife, Herro--occasionally broach topics that
   were once taboo.

   Especially compared with the rest of Iraq, Kurdistan has been making
   strides on every front. But this does not mean it will survive as a
   fledgling nation.

   The Iraqi Kurds depend, in the end, on three main things: their
   hardened fighting men, known as the Peshmergas ("those willing to
   die"), technically a "regional protection force" within Iraq; their
   neighbours, especially the Turks; and the mountains ("the Kurds' only
   friends", as their centuries-old saying goes).

   The Peshmergas are probably Iraq's best fighting forces in terms of
   discipline, morale and motivation. According to Jafar Ali Mustafa, the
   Kurds' minister of state for Peshmerga affairs (in fact, the PUK's
   defence boss), they number some 200,000; half are loyal to his union,
   half to the Barzanis' KDP. A merger is proceeding steadily, he says.

   The Kurds' relations with their neighbours are just as critical.
   Turkey, with its 14m-odd Kurds of its own (many of them well
   assimilated) in a population of 75m, has frequently issued threats to
   invade Iraqi Kurdistan and clobber its Kurds if they make a grab for
   Kirkuk, where Turkey considers itself the guarantor of the rights of
   the Turkomans, their ethnic kinsfolk from the days when the area was
   part of the Ottoman empire. It also threatens to invade if Iraq's
   Kurds do not oust or corral the 3,000-plus guerrillas of the Kurdistan
   Workers' Party (PKK), who hide in the remotest mountains of northern
   Iraq, where they plan and train for their lethal operations in
   south-eastern Turkey.

   The Iraqi Kurds consider the PKK a nuisance, but are unlikely to spill
   the blood of their ethnic brothers. They argue, instead, that the
   Turks should negotiate with them. The Iraqi Kurds' leaders may,
   however, turn a blind eye if the PKK is attacked within Iraqi Kurdish
   territory, perhaps even with the complicity of the Americans, who
   sorely need to improve their relations with Turkey, a rare and crucial
   Muslim ally of America in the Middle East. But many rank-and-file
   Kurds would be furious.

   However, the Turks and Iraqi Kurds have been getting on better, as the
   Kurdish government settles down and since Turkey's mildly Islamist
   government was re-elected in July, scoring notably well in Turkey's
   Kurdish areas. Moreover, Turkey is by far the Iraqi Kurds' biggest
   economic partner. Erbil's huge new airport, for instance, is a Turkish
   (and British) project. If Turkey and Iraqi Kurdistan could come to an
   accommodation, which looks more feasible than before, it would vastly
   boost the chances of the latter's survival. To a lesser extent, the
   same goes for the Iraqi Kurds' relations with Iran and Syria, both of
   which are wary of an independent Iraqi Kurdistan but could probably
   live with it.

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                Kurds must plot their next move cunningly

   Iraq's Sunni Arabs and Iraq's other Arab neighbours, mainly Sunni (as
   are most Kurds), both remain deeply hostile to the notion of an
   autonomous, let alone independent, Kurdistan. They see the Kurds as
   destroyers of an Arab nation and bent on undermining the Arabs'
   professed unity on a wider scale. They are enraged by the Kurds'
   refusal to fly the Iraqi flag, and ritually accuse them of being a
   fifth column for Israel and Zionists.

   Without fail, say Kurdish ministers, visiting Arab journalists raise
   both topics. In response, the Kurds point out that several Arab
   countries have relations with Israel. "The chauvinist Arabs always
   call us a second Israel," says Mr Jafar, the Peshmerga leader. He
   denies that Israel and the Kurds have military or intelligence
   contacts. "I wish we did," he says breezily.

   Kurdish leaders are as candid about their desire for the Americans to
   stay on in Iraq or, if they are bound to withdraw, to keep a military
   base in Iraqi Kurdistan as a guarantor of the Kurds' national safety.
   "We'd like the Americans to put their biggest base in Kurdistan," says
   Mr Jafar.

   But the Americans have so far been wary of too warmly embracing the
   Kurds, concentrating instead on trying to reconcile Sunni and Shia
   Arabs in Baghdad. "We love the Americans but they don't love us,"
   Nechirvan Barzani, the Kurds' prime minister, is said recently to have
   sighed.

   Hanging on to what you've got

   Could the Kurds be satisfied with extreme autonomy in northern Iraq?
   An informal referendum in 2005 suggested that 98% of them would like
   outright independence if they could have it. But almost every senior
   Kurd in Iraq says he would accept extreme autonomy--provided there is
   a genuine federation and that the central government in Baghdad gives
   the Kurds a good deal, especially over the management and exploration
   of oil in the north. Getting back Kirkuk means a lot too; conceivably,
   a special deal could be arranged there to leave the city with a status
   of its own.

   Is it possible to feel both Kurdish and Iraqi? A former long-serving
   minister in Iraq's Kurdish government, who is a noted historian,
   barely blinks. "Frankly, no." Then, after a pause, he adds: "If Iraq
   ever became truly democratic, maybe."

   Masrur Barzani, the 38-year-old intelligence chief and possible future
   head of the Barzani clan, recommends a "three-state solution",
   presumably meaning that Iraq, which he calls "the illusion of a
   country that doesn't really exist", should one day be divided into a
   three-way confederation. To most Iraqi Kurds, the emergence of a
   kindly, federal, Arab-run Iraq in which they could have a comfy
   existence is an absurd prospect.

   Briefly after the Ottoman Turks' empire collapsed, the Kurds seemed in
   reach of a homeland of their own--only to be betrayed by the great
   powers, Britain to the fore. Now they are enjoying a golden age of
   not-quite-independence for longer than at any time in their modern
   history. So why would they risk a reversion to a past of subjugation
   by Arabs, Turks or Persians?

   If they are sensible, the Kurds will not rush towards independence. To
   be landlocked and without permanently friendly neighbours is a pretty
   hopeless recipe for statehood. The outside powers on which the Kurds
   ultimately depend, especially Turkey and the United States, would not
   allow them to break away. The Turks could throttle them economically
   if not bash them militarily; the Americans may well turn their backs,
   reckoning that it is strategically more important to curry favour with
   Turks and Arabs.

   But if the Iraqi Kurds can bed down quietly for, say, five or ten
   years, securing their borders, making their economy work, building a
   modicum of freedom if not full-fledged democracy, and staying out of
   the trouble swirling around them in the rest of Iraq, it will be
   increasingly impossible for the rest of the world to ignore their
   patently rightful claim to self-determination. They have at least a
   chance of getting it.


   A bad week for those looking forward to the end of President Robert
   Mugabe


   EXPECTATIONS had been raised ahead of a summit of southern African
   leaders on March 29th that Robert Mugabe would finally be told,
   politely but firmly, that it was time to go. The meeting had been
   called mainly to discuss Zimbabwe's dreadful economy and the arrests
   and beating of opposition leaders. Surely the president would not get
   off this time?

   Astonishingly, Mr Mugabe got more bouquets than brickbats. The
   assembled heads of state called for sanctions to be lifted to take the
   pressure off their comrade, and declared the grubby presidential
   election of 2002 free and fair. With this sort of endorsement ringing
   in his ears, Mr Mugabe smartly returned to what he knows best:
   intimidating his opponents. He called the beating of the opposition
   leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, not only "deserved" but promised more of
   the same. To cap his perfect week, Zimbabwe's ruling ZANU-PF party
   said Mr Mugabe would be its presidential candidate in next year's
   election.

   Even by the standards of the South African Development Community's
   feeble diplomacy, it was an extraordinary performance. The SADC has
   always argued that America's and Britain's more confrontational
   approach is counter-productive, but this was taking quiet diplomacy to
   the other extreme. For those looking for a glimmer of support from
   their fellow Africans in their struggle to survive Mr Mugabe's regime,
   it was a huge disappointment.

   The only slight bother for Mr Mugabe was a decision to ask South
   Africa's president, Thabo Mbeki, to mediate between the government and
   the opposition. In private, neighbouring countries are growing
   increasingly frustrated and there has been movement behind the scenes.
   Ahead of the summit, both factions of the opposition Movement for
   Democratic Change, which split in 2005, met South African officials
   and presented a joint plan to solve the crisis. At the same time,
   South Africa's deputy president, Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, met her
   Zimbabwean counterpart, Joyce Mujuru, and her husband, a powerful
   ZANU-PF stalwart (and former head of the army) who is said to harbour
   ambitions to succeed Mr Mugabe. Most of those ready for a change
   within the ruling party accept that any way out of the crisis requires
   the opposition's co-operation.

   In truth, though, Mr Mbeki will probably struggle to make much headway
   with Mr Mugabe, who despises the South African president. Pressure on
   him may be stronger from inside the country. Trade unions are
   organising another stay-away this week, and the opposition, though
   weak and divided, is nonetheless showing signs of regrouping. And
   despite the apparent endorsement last week by ZANU-PF of his
   candidacy, Mr Mugabe's standing in his own party has been weakened.
   The endorsement came without much of a vote, and the party's
   constitution automatically anoints its president to run for the
   country's top job.

   Still, the SADC's official show of support for Mr Mugabe has boosted
   his chances of survival, at any rate in the short run. With Africa's
   spineless politicians choosing to let Mr Mugabe carry on mistreating
   his own people, it was left to the country's Catholic church to speak
   out on their behalf. On April 1st, in an unprecedented pastoral
   letter, it denounced Zimbabwe's "racist, corrupt and lawless"
   government, comparing it directly to the regime of white settlers that
   had gone before. "This so-called quiet diplomacy is hogwash," said the
   Archbishop of Bulawayo. "You can't persuade Mugabe to leave. He has to
   be forced out." But how?


   Indonesia has some worrying radicals but it seems to be following
   Turkey, with Islamists moderating as they get closer to power

                                                                   Magnum

                                   Magnum


   IS INDONESIA, the most populous Muslim-majority country, undergoing
   creeping Islamisation? It is not hard to assemble enough recent
   evidence to give Western Islamophobes goosebumps. In late December a
   mob attacked and burned a prayer house in West Java belonging to
   Ahmadiyah, a sect deemed heretical by some mainstream Islamic
   scholars. Earlier in the month the country's Christian leaders
   complained that Muslim radicals, helped by local officials, had
   carried out a string of attacks on churches. Ten Muslim militants were
   jailed for attacks on Christians on Sulawesi island, including the
   beheading of three schoolgirls. In late November the religious-affairs
   ministry barred a liberal Egyptian scholar, Nasr Hamid Abu Zayd (who
   calls the Koran a "cultural product"), from public speaking in
   Indonesia.

   Behind many recent incidents is a vigilante group, the Islam
   Defenders' Front (FPI), which in September assaulted bars, cafs and
   hotels in Bogor, near Jakarta, accusing them of violating Ramadan.
   Another rising radical force is the Indonesian chapter of
   Hizb-ut-Tahrir, which wants a caliphate to rule the whole Muslim
   world. Last August it gathered perhaps 90,000 supporters in a Jakarta
   stadium. Its leaders condemned democracy on the basis that sovereignty
   lies in God's hands, not the people's. A not dissimilar attack on
   pluralism was made in a hardline fatwa issued in 2005 by the
   Indonesian Ulemas Council (MUI). This same semi-official body recently
   demanded the banning of the liberal Egyptian scholar.

   In 2006 a poll found that one in ten Indonesians supported terrorist
   attacks like the 2002 Bali bombings if intended to "protect the
   faith". Jemaah Islamiah (JI), the terror group behind the Bali
   attacks, is still running several dozen pesantren (boarding schools),
   putting who knows what into impressionable teenage heads. The Bali
   bombers are due to be executed in the next few weeks, possibly
   triggering a backlash by radicals.

   This all sounds worrying. But Indonesia is a huge, varied and complex
   place, and the radicals--even though some have a semi-official
   platform--are a small and not very influential minority. Contrary
   evidence abounds: liberals as well as radicals are making inroads.
   They have won a big battle over a "pornography" law that Islamists
   proposed in 2006. It would have banned bikinis and short skirts, for
   non-Muslim women too, and prohibited the Hindu minority's traditional
   dances. But a public outcry forced lawmakers to strike out all the
   controversial bits--and it still has not passed in parliament. Two new
   anti-terrorist police squads have made much progress in arresting and
   breaking up JI's leadership. There have been no attacks on foreign
   targets for two years.

   As Indonesia democratised after the fall of the (secular) Suharto
   regime in 1998, local authorities gained autonomy and became directly
   elected. Many seized the opportunity to pass sharia-based laws,
   stoking fears of Islamisation. However, Greg Fealy, an Australian
   expert on Indonesian Islam, says these laws, though successful in
   winning votes for the local politicians pushing them, have usually had
   little practical impact. He recently revisited one such district,
   Tasikmalaya, where he found "there were more schoolgirls wearing the
   headscarf but just as much gambling, prostitution and drinking as
   before."

   The formerly separatist region of Aceh was allowed, under a peace pact
   with the rebels, to introduce strict sharia. The move was popular at
   first, says Sidney Jones of the International Crisis Group, a
   think-tank, but there was widespread revulsion when the authorities
   started publicly whipping miscreants. As a result the religious police
   were drastically reined in. Overall, Indonesians seem to prefer the
   idea of living under "God's law" to the practice of it. Indonesian
   Islam has always been distinct from the Middle Eastern kind, infusing
   influences from Hinduism and other religions. This will make it hard
   for fundamentalists to get far, says Muhammad Hikam, a political
   consultant.

   Whereas a relatively small number of fiery militants and
   fundamentalists get most attention, Mr Hikam says that liberal Islamic
   scholars have successfully broken the link between religious piety and
   political Islam. Indonesians seeking a more overt expression of their
   faith, as many do nowadays, can still believe in separation of mosque
   and state. As the 2009 presidential and parliamentary elections
   approach, secular parties have been attracting voters by creating
   Islamic--but not Islamist--wings. The in-phrase, says Mr Fealy, is
   Islam Lunak, "soft Islam". Pollsters are telling politicians that it
   helps to add a mild religious tinge to speeches about social justice
   and anti-corruption. But radical stuff, like preaching an Islamic
   state, is a turn-off.

   Indonesia's two biggest Muslim organisations are Nahdlatul Ulama
   (NU)--whose long-time leader, Abdurrahman Wahid was president of
   Indonesia in 1999-2001--and Muhammadiyah, which together claim around
   70m members. They indeed used to call for an Islamic state. Nowadays
   Masdar Farid Mas'udi, a senior NU figure, says all they mean by an
   "Islamic" state is a just and prosperous one. In some ways the two
   bodies have come to resemble Europe's mainstream Christian churches:
   "Catholic" NU stresses traditional rites and the authority of
   religious leaders, whereas "Protestant" Muhammadiyah stresses the
   primacy of scripture. As with Catholics and Protestants it is family
   tradition, rather than theology, that usually determines which group
   one belongs to. Both now accept Indonesia's secular founding creed,
   pancasila, which preaches religious tolerance (though you are supposed
   to believe in God).

   Moderate success

   Several of the country's political parties began life as the political
   wings of religious movements such as NU and Muhammidiyah. But the
   parties and their parent bodies have drifted apart, even as all have
   mellowed. In recent elections a more religiously conservative group,
   Prosperous Justice (PKS), has gained votes--but polls now show its
   support slumping. One reason is that it backed the pornography law and
   has suffered in the backlash against it.

   Another, admits Zulkieflimansyah, a senior PKS parliamentarian, is
   that it has joined the (secular) coalition of President Susilo Bambang
   Yudhoyono. Its popularity has suffered because of tough policies such
   as cutting fuel subsidies. Mr Zulkieflimansyah sees his party as
   undergoing a desirable process of moderation as it "encounters
   reality". PKS--like longer-established Muslim parties before it--is
   now having to ditch the fire and brimstone to transcend minority
   appeal. Rising younger figures in the party, like him, are more
   comfortable with this than its older generation, who studied in the
   Middle East. In general, the country's larger Muslim parties are
   echoing Turkey's ruling AK party--ditching Islamism while still
   appealing to the pious. Smaller ones still holding to a hard line may
   fare badly in 2009: Mr Fealy reckons that in 200 regional elections in
   the past two-and-a-half years not a single "sectarian" Muslim
   candidate has won.

   Indonesia is, overall, edging away from radical Islamism. But the
   trend is not irreversible, and the authorities must avoid fostering
   fundamentalists by pandering to them. The MUI (the council of mullahs)
   and the FPI (the vigilantes) provide a lesson: both were created, for
   temporary reasons of expediency, by the Suharto regime but both have
   lingered to haunt its democratic successors. Mr Yudhoyono now seems to
   be trying to channel the MUI's radical enthusiasm into issuing fatwas
   against "deviant" Islamic sects like Ahmadiyah. But this only
   encourages the FPI to take up its cudgels.

   Other, more important ways to make sure Indonesia stays on the path to
   democratic pluralism are to keep the economy growing and to boost
   sluggish efforts at reforming graft-ridden public institutions. High
   unemployment provides recruits for communal violence like that in
   Sulawesi--whether or not religion is the spark that ignites the
   tinder. Poverty, combined with disgust at corrupt officialdom, push
   some people towards the Utopian promises of groups such as
   Hizb-ut-Tahrir. In Indonesia, unlike most Muslim countries, the
   ideological struggle between various forms of Islam is being fought
   largely by democratic means. The violent and the intolerant are still
   at the margins and, while the country's steady progress persists, look
   likely to stay there.


   Curbing dangerous nuclear technologies gets trickier

   WHEN Russia announced it had started shipping low-enriched uranium
   fuel to power the civilian nuclear reactor it is helping Iran build at
   Bushehr, George Bush tried to squeeze some comfort out of a piece of
   news which--for the international effort to curb Iran's nuclear
   ambitions--was a disappointing about-turn. "If the Iranians accept
   that [Russian] uranium for a civilian power plant, then there's no
   need for them to learn how to enrich," he said on December 17th.

   True, in theory. But Iran refuses to follow such logic. By making
   long-delayed fuel shipments to Bushehr now, Russia will weaken further
   the UN Security Council effort to end Iran's defiance. It also risks
   undermining plans to limit the spread of dangerous nuclear
   technologies at a time when many governments, including a number in
   the volatile Middle East, plan to invest in nuclear power.

   Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, insists Iran will not stop its
   own fuel-making: another 50,000 or more will eventually be added to
   the 3,000 centrifuge machines now spinning at its uranium-enrichment
   plant at Natanz. These, say its nuclear officials, will provide
   low-enriched uranium (used for making electricity, but at higher
   enrichment levels for bomb-making) for a separate, indigenously built
   360MW reactor at Darkhovin, in the province of Khuzistan.

   This is a puzzle. Iranian engineers are already building a 40MW
   "research" reactor at Arak that is worryingly too big for research,
   too small for electricity generation and ideally suited to produce
   plutonium (another bomb ingredient) from its spent fuel, but they lack
   skills both in reactor design and in the manufacture of the larger
   parts needed for power reactors, says Gary Samore of the New
   York-based Council on Foreign Relations. Unless Iran gets outside help
   (the Arak designs were provided by freelancing Russian scientists),
   Darkhovin could be just an excuse for Iran's continuing its own
   enrichment work.

   With Iran so obdurate, why the changed tack over Bushehr? In 2005
   Russia said no fuel would go while questions remained about Iran's
   peaceful intentions. But inspectors have plenty of those.

   Holding back on the fuel for Bushehr was one bit of Russian leverage
   in the nuclear dispute with Iran that is now being lost. Similarly, Mr
   Bush's refusal to take the option of a strike against Iran's nuclear
   facilities off the table seems a lot less credible since a recent
   National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) concluded that Iran had suspended
   some elements of a weapons programme in 2003. (Israel and some
   European governments are worried those efforts may have resumed; and
   they and American officials point out that at the very least Iran
   persists with its potentially weapons-usable enrichment work.)

   Russia's decision on fuel shipments was made before the NIE was
   published. Commercial concerns may have tipped Russia's hand, says
   Mark Fitzpatrick of the London-based International Institute for
   Strategic Studies, a think-tank. It wants to be seen as a reliable
   supplier, so as to pick up more reactor contracts from others. Russia,
   America, some Europeans, Japan and others with advanced nuclear
   fuel-related technologies also have ideas for fuel-supply services and
   spent-fuel management as an incentive for governments not to follow in
   Iran's nuclear footsteps. But Russia is helping Iran show you can have
   it all.


   Israel's government may not last long enough to strike a peace deal

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                     Can Olmert light a candle for peace?


   "SHAS is dividing Jerusalem!" At first glance, the graffito on a wall
   in the city centre looks incongruous. Shas, a religious right-wing
   party in Ehud Olmert's government coalition, vociferously opposes
   relinquishing any of what Israel considers its eternal and indivisible
   capital to a future Palestinian state. But the spray-painted slogan is
   in fact a portent of how peace talks between the Israelis and
   Palestinians, which began this week after being launched at last
   month's summit in Annapolis, may break down.

   Mr Olmert, Israel's prime minister, says he wants to conclude a peace
   agreement within a year, but the received wisdom is that his coalition
   government will fall first. The talks are unluckily timed: Israeli
   coalitions usually break up in their third year, and the five-party
   ensemble led by Mr Olmert's Kadima will have its second birthday in
   May.

   This fragility may be generic to Israeli politics. With so many
   parties jostling for space, their fortunes are volatile and many
   legislators do not get re-elected. So they are loth to destabilise the
   government in the first two years, but then switch to aggressive
   electioneering, seeking issues to make them stand out at the next
   plebiscite.

   The issue this time could be Jerusalem. Since both Israel and the
   Palestinians claim it as their capital, some partition will be
   essential for a peace agreement. This week, after an uproar over
   Israel's plans to build 300 new Jewish homes on West Bank land that it
   annexed to Jerusalem in 1980--actions that are widely regarded abroad
   as illegal--Haim Ramon, Mr Olmert's deputy, said that Israel would
   give up some other annexed neighbourhoods where Palestinians live. But
   Israeli hardliners do not want to surrender even these areas, though
   they contain neither Jews nor Jewish monuments.

   Both Shas and another coalition member, Yisrael Beiteinu, are
   right-wing but opportunistic parties that benefit from being in power.
   They might have quietly swallowed a token partition of Jerusalem
   earlier in the government's term. But in a possible election year, the
   pressure on them to block any concessions to the Palestinians will be
   intense--particularly if the right-wing Likud is the favourite to win,
   as it currently is. The graffito about Shas, plus posters similarly
   denouncing Yisrael Beiteinu which began appearing just before the
   Annapolis summit, shows that the pressure is already on.

   On top of that, Mr Olmert's government could still fall over the final
   report of a commission investigating last year's Lebanon war, or over
   any one of several corruption probes (though those threats have
   recently receded a bit). But the talks with the Palestinians are not
   necessarily doomed to failure. Mr Olmert could push them hard, hoping
   to make enough progress by the time the government does fall to
   persuade moderate voters to re-elect him to finish the job. Or Labour,
   which also supports the peace process, might beat the Likud in an
   election if its leader, Ehud Barak, were to secure general public
   approval in his current job as Mr Olmert's doughty defence minister.

   Those are big gambles, however. Another strategy for Mr Olmert, says
   Gidi Grinstein of the Reut Institute, a think-tank in Tel Aviv, would
   be to retreat from a full-fledged accord and instead try to clinch a
   deal on a provisional Palestinian state, with borders that could
   change later. The Palestinians have long opposed such an approach,
   under which they might lose more land. But if the alternative is a
   total breakdown, it may be their only choice.


   The court names its first two people suspected of atrocities in Darfur


   IN THE village of Arawala, West Darfur, the women were lined up,
   stripped naked and tied to trees with their legs apart. Throughout the
   night, the men of the janjaweed, the Sudanese government-backed Arab
   militia, repeatedly raped them. One woman said she was raped by
   between ten and 25 men. The soldiers later burnt the village to ash,
   killing many of its 7,000 inhabitants and forcing the rest to flee.

   In the town of Mukjar, also in West Darfur, a witness said she saw her
   uncle in a makeshift prison after he had been rounded up with other
   townsmen by the janjaweed and members of the Sudanese armed forces. He
   was suspended in mid-air, his arms bound to a plank in the ceiling,
   his legs tied wide apart over a burning stove. Some 60 others,
   restrained in different ways, were in the same room. All had whip
   marks on their bodies, and their clothes were bloodstained and torn.
   One had had his finger- and toenails pulled out.

   It is for atrocities such as these that Luis Moreno-Ocampo, chief
   prosecutor of the International Criminal Court (ICC) in The Hague, has
   asked the court's pre-trial chamber to issue summonses against two
   men: Ahmad Muhammad Harun, a former junior interior minister in the
   Sudanese government and head of its Darfur security desk and now,
   astonishingly, minister for humanitarian affairs; and Ali Muhammad Ali
   Abd-al-Rahman, better known by his nom de guerre, Ali Kushayb, a
   leader of the janjaweed. Evidence against other suspects, perhaps even
   more senior, is likely to be presented later.

   More than 200,000 people are reckoned to have been killed and some
   2.5m others driven from their homes in Sudan's westernmost province
   since fighting began in February 2003, when black African tribesmen
   took up arms, complaining of decades of neglect and discrimination by
   the Arab-dominated government in Khartoum. In the past month alone,
   some 46,000 more have fled from their villages in an attempt to escape
   the slaughter, rape and destruction by the janjaweed and Sudanese
   government forces.

   Making it all stick

   Mr Moreno-Ocampo's presentation on February 27th of 94 pages of
   evidence, meticulously compiled under very difficult circumstances
   over the past 20 months, provoked predictable outrage in Khartoum.
   "All the evidence the prosecutor referred to is lies," said Mohamed
   Ali al-Mardi, Sudan's justice minister. Ever since the UN Security
   Council passed a resolution in March 2005 asking the ICC to
   investigate the situation in Darfur, Omar al-Bashir, Sudan's
   president, has repeatedly sworn never to hand over any Sudanese
   citizen indicted by the court. His own government was perfectly "able
   and willing" to try the perpetrators itself. Indeed, it had set up a
   special criminal court in 2005 to do just that. As a tribunal of last
   resort, the international court had no jurisdiction.

   Mr Moreno-Ocampo always knew that admissibility would pose a problem:
   the ICC cannot prosecute people who are already being investigated or
   charged in another jurisdiction, for example in their home country.
   But after five visits to Sudan for talks with government and judicial
   officials, he is sure they are not investigating the same people (in
   regard to Mr Harun) or the same crimes (re Mr Kushayb), so his case
   against the pair should be admissible. It will now be up to the ICC's
   pre-trial chamber to decide whether he is right. It will also have to
   decide whether there are "reasonable grounds" to arraign the two.

   There are, says Mr Moreno-Ocampo. Though his investigators could not
   get into Darfur, they screened some 600 potential witnesses during 70
   missions to 17 countries, taking formal statements from about 100 of
   them. He says he has a "very strong case" demonstrating the criminal
   responsibility of Messrs Harun and Kushayb in relation to 51 counts of
   alleged crimes against humanity and war crimes, including murder,
   torture, persecution and mass rape carried out against Darfur's
   civilians in 2003 and 2004. He makes no reference to America's
   allegation of genocide.

   Mr Moreno-Ocampo's continuing investigations cover the whole period up
   to the present day. He refuses to divulge whether or when other
   suspects may be named, saying he will go wherever the evidence leads
   him. For his first case, he has targeted a chief planner and a primary
   implementer of the worst atrocities. Their testimony could prove vital
   in helping him reach those responsible higher up the chain of command.
   Human-rights lobbies are urging him to go to the top--to Mr Bashir
   himself. But this would complicate an already complex situation.

   Western diplomats are already worried about the impact of the ICC on
   efforts to get UN troops into Darfur. An agreement on a proposed
   hybrid UN-African Union force is not even close yet. Under the terms
   of the UN Security Council resolution on Darfur, Sudan is obliged to
   co-operate with the court. If it refuses, it could face sanctions or
   other measures. Meanwhile, the raping and killing in Darfur goes on.


                                                                      EPA

                                    EPA

   After a stolen election, ethnic cleansing and even the threat of civil
   war


   THE decision to return Kenya's 76-year-old incumbent president, Mwai
   Kibaki, to office was not made by the Kenyan people but by a small
   group of hardline leaders from Mr Kibaki's Kikuyu tribe. They made up
   their minds before the result was announced, perhaps even before the
   opposition candidate, Raila Odinga, had opened up a lead in early
   returns from the December 27th election. It was a civil coup.

   The planning was meticulous. All that was needed were the extra votes
   to squeak past Mr Odinga in what had been among the most closely
   contested elections Africa had ever seen. That was why returns from
   Central Province, Mr Kibaki's fiercely loyal Kikuyu heartland, were
   inexplicably held back. It was why, in some constituencies, a large
   number of voters seemed mysteriously to vote only in the presidential
   race and ignore the parliamentary ballot--despite waiting hours in the
   blazing sun. But the real damage was done in Nairobi, by simply
   crossing out the number of votes as announced in the constituency and
   scribbling in a higher number. Election monitors were turned away
   while the tallying went on. Monitors from the European Union saw tens
   of thousands of votes pinched in this way.

   Mr Odinga's supporters were not innocent either. There were
   irregularities in his home province of Nyanza. Still, it was the
   meddling in Central Province that was decisive. Officially, Mr Kibaki
   won 4.58m votes to Mr Odinga's 4.35m. A third candidate, Kalonzo
   Musyoka, won 880,000 votes. Unofficially, Mr Odinga may have won,
   albeit by a similarly narrow margin.

   The tragedy for Kenya, and what threatens to rip the nation apart, is
   that no one will know for sure. The EU's preliminary report on the
   election was scathing. Although the parliamentary election had gone
   off well, the European observers said the presidential one had fallen
   short of "international standards".

   The role of the electoral commission was particularly dodgy. On the
   afternoon of December 30th its head, Samuel Kivuitu, declared Mr
   Kibaki president. The news went out only on KBC, the state
   broadcaster. Other camera crews were led out of the building. The
   security forces sealed off the city centre against the angry poor,
   most of whom had voted for Mr Odinga. A few minutes later, in the
   twilight, Mr Kibaki was sworn in as president at the State House. In
   contrast to Mr Kibaki's first term, when the inauguration took place
   in a stadium heaving with jubilant supporters, there were no
   dignitaries or diplomats, just a few dozen loyalists and civil
   servants. Some questioned whether in fact the whole event had been
   staged earlier and pre-recorded.

   The reaction to the swearing-in was immediate. Nairobi's slums
   exploded in rage. The poor killed each other. Across the country came
   a swelling up of tribal violence, sometimes Kikuyu against Mr Odinga's
   Luo tribe, more often Luo and other tribes against Kikuyu. Hundreds
   have been killed so far and 80,000 displaced. Gang rapes and
   mutilations are widespread. Police have orders to shoot to kill. There
   has been looting in Kisumu, riots in Mombasa and pitched battles in
   Eldoret (see map). Kikuyu hiding in a church near Eldoret were burned
   alive by a mob.

   Taken together, this amounts to a pulling apart of Kenya's rich
   national fabric. Some 97% of Kikuyu voted for Mr Kibaki. Everywhere
   else he was trounced. Muslims, for instance, voted against Mr Kibaki
   by 70% or more. The Kikuyu highlands encircling the glaciers of Mount
   Kenya increasingly feel like a state within a state. The division is
   even more troubling when the parliamentary vote is taken into account.
   Mr Kibaki lost half his cabinet, including his vice-president, as well
   as a large number of seemingly unassailable members of parliament.
   This government may find it impossible to pass a budget.

   The hardliners' instincts will be to use the security services to
   reverse the freedoms of Mr Kibaki's first term--anything to avoid
   power slipping into Mr Odinga's hands. But Kenyans may not stand for
   this. The government pressured the country's mobile-phone operators to
   suspend text messages for "security reasons", without success. The
   army's strong apolitical tradition, with staff officers drawn from
   several tribes, looks to be holding.

   Mr Odinga is demanding Mr Kibaki's resignation. He is calling for a
   campaign of civil action, peaceable, but determined. On January 3rd
   thousands of opposition supporters tried to converge on the centre of
   Nairobi for a protest rally but were dispersed by the police. Later
   the same day Mr Kibaki said, for the first time, that he was willing
   to talk to the opposition "once the nation is calm".

   The expectations of the Luo and other tribes who consider themselves
   marginalised will have to be addressed, and soon. With 38m people,
   half of them under 20, Kenya's economy has to create several hundred
   thousand jobs this year just to stand still. But investment will be
   hit by the violence, as will vital tourism revenues.

   The EU had at first been reluctant to send observers, arguing that
   resources for Africa were slim and Kenya was "too stable". During the
   orderly voting, the mission did indeed look like an extravagance. A
   week later the country was teetering on the brink of civil war. A
   chastened Mr Kivuitu now says he is not sure Mr Kibaki won the
   election. The Americans and the British have been twisting arms, as
   has the African Union's head, John Kufuor. Well-connected Kikuyu
   business leaders are trying to persuade Mr Kibaki to give in and form
   a government of national unity. In the meantime, Kenya burns.


   No one, it seems, can stop Somalia's capital from imploding again

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP


   THE surgeons in the Medina hospital in Mogadishu are used to dressing
   gunshot wounds, but they had seen nothing as intense as last week's
   fighting. Islamist insurgents exchanged small-arms and artillery fire
   with Ethiopian and government troops, killing up to 400 people, most
   of them civilians. Casualties piled up in the hospital's corridors and
   corpses rotted in the sandy streets beyond, unclaimed until a lull in
   the fighting allowed for shallow graves to be dug where people fell.

   Somalia's capital, it seems, is in danger of slipping back into a
   state of bloody anarchy. About 47,000 people have fled the city during
   the fighting and more have been queuing up to leave, by minibus,
   donkey or on foot. And all this comes only three months after the
   Ethiopian-backed government had supposedly claimed back control of the
   city from the Islamist militias that they said they had defeated in a
   swift campaign last December.

   Now the picture looks very different. Remnants of the Islamist
   fighters have regrouped. Together with disaffected fighters from the
   powerful Hawiye clan, which is used to controlling much of the
   capital, they threaten a proper insurgency.

   Furthermore, as many had predicted, the continuing presence of
   Ethiopian soldiers in the capital is exacerbating the conflict.
   Indeed, far from leaving, as they had started to do, the Ethiopians
   have called for reinforcements. Not that this is entirely their fault.
   The African Union (AU) had promised to fly in 8,000 peacekeeping
   troops to replace the Ethiopians to enforce a fragile ceasefire, but
   only 1,200 or so Ugandans have actually arrived in Mogadishu, where
   they have been restricted to protecting the airport and other
   installations. Nigeria and others have promised troops but not yet
   sent them.

   That has left the Ethiopians to do most of the fighting on behalf of
   the government, with covert assistance from America. Ethiopian
   soldiers had done a mostly impressive job of policing Mogadishu with
   little incident for three months. But they are seen as invaders by
   most Somalis and will remain unpopular, and thus targets, whatever
   they do. The same goes for the Americans. They have backed the
   government and the Ethiopians as a way of rooting out suspected
   al-Qaeda men who had operated on the fringes of the Union of Islamic
   Courts, the Somali Islamists whose brief reign had brought a modicum
   of order until they were pushed out.

   A further complication is the Eritrean backing of the ousted Islamist
   militias. Eritrea has supplied arms to them and might be doing so
   again. Yoweri Museveni, Uganda's president, visited Eritrea this week
   to ask it not to get involved, but was rebuffed. Eritrea sees the
   mayhem in Somalia as a chance to make life as hard as possible for its
   Ethiopian neighbour and mortal enemy. Eritrea says it opposes "any
   foreign involvement" in Somalia--except, of course, its own.

   The international contact group on Somalia, a body set up to try to
   resolve the Somali crisis, including representatives from America and
   the European Union, held talks in Egypt this week but produced little
   new. Somalia's government was urged again to reach out to moderate
   Islamists, but nobody knows what to do about the remaining Islamist
   fighters, who seem intent on jihad. Some diplomats in the region think
   it inevitable that, despairing of any solution, the outside world will
   just cast Somalia adrift. Many in Mogadishu think that their city
   already has been.

   What more could be done? A properly enforced arms embargo may have a
   calming effect. But the immediate challenge is to prevent Mogadishu
   sliding back into a war economy, where men with guns profit from
   instability. The signs are not good. Food prices are up by 50%.
   Extortion at gunpoint is back.

   More importantly, deals will have to be done with the Hawiye clan
   elders to try to detach them from the Islamist fighters, thus reducing
   the opposition to the government. The Union of Islamic Courts made
   themselves popular with people in Mogadishu last year by imposing
   enough order to allow people to get on with their normal business
   again. Now, for instance, the Hawiye traders complain of a threefold
   increase in duty applied to staple goods arriving at Mogadishu's port.
   Settling issues like this could make the Hawiye leaders, and the
   gunmen they control, readier to negotiate.

   If that were to happen, there may be a small chance of an
   accommodation between the Hawiye and the government. The alternative
   is dire. It took 15 years and 14 attempts to deliver Somalia the
   relative peace that the country enjoyed in the first three months of
   this year. If the country fails again, it could stay failed for a very
   long time.


   How not to run a police force

                                                                      EPA
                                                                      EPA

                                       Selebi and the pointing of fingers


   IT SEEMS, for the moment, as if South Africa's governing class is
   being engulfed by charges of corruption. Three weeks ago it was the
   turn of Jacob Zuma, the newly elected leader of the ruling African
   National Congress (ANC). He was charged with fraud, tax evasion and
   money laundering and is due in court in August. This week it was the
   turn of Jackie Selebi, the head of the police. The National
   Prosecuting Authority says it will charge him with corruption and
   "defeating the ends of justice". He has been suspended from his job
   and he also resigned as head of Interpol, the international police
   body. On January 8th the police also arrested Gerrie Nel, a senior
   member of a special investigations unit known as the Scorpions, also
   on charges of corruption. He is the man who had led the investigation
   into Mr Selebi. All the charges against Mr Nel, however, were dropped
   a week later.

   All these cases point to an unduly incestuous relationship between the
   politicians and the country's supposedly independent security
   apparatus. They also illustrate the way in which the acrimonious
   battle for power between Mr Zuma and Thabo Mbeki, the country's
   president whom he defeated in December's ANC leadership election, is
   poisoning both the civil service and the political system.

   Mr Selebi is Mr Mbeki's man, and the president has discredited himself
   by defending his friend too doggedly. Months ago Mr Selebi admitted to
   being a friend of Glen Agliotti, a drug trafficker who was implicated
   in the murder in 2005 of a shady mining magnate. When faced with angry
   public calls to replace Mr Selebi, Mr Mbeki merely asked South
   Africans to trust him. The prosecuting authority's new allegations are
   particularly damaging. It says that as well as handing out bags of
   cash to Mr Selebi, Mr Agliotti also paid for some of the police
   chief's shopping. In return, Mr Selebi protected Mr Agliotti's friends
   and shared confidential documents with him. The police chief denies
   all the charges.

   The prosecuting authority, already accused of abusing its power to
   settle scores against Mr Zuma, has itself been caught in the
   crossfire, as have the Scorpions, who report to it. In September Vusi
   Pikoli, the national prosecutor, was suspended as he was poised to
   arrest Mr Selebi. Mr Mbeki said this was due to a breakdown in Mr
   Pikoli's relations with his boss, the justice minister. But the timing
   of Mr Pikoli's fall fed suspicions that he was in fact being punished
   for going after Mr Selebi.

   Mr Nel's arrest was seen by some as retaliation by Mr Selebi's force
   against the Scorpions, since they had helped bring the charges against
   Mr Selebi. That the charges against Mr Nel were dropped so fast
   suggests that they were pretty spurious in the first place. The
   episode will only deepen the bitter rivalry between the Scorpions and
   the regular police.

   This murky sort of business would scandalise any country. But in one
   plagued by some of the highest levels of violent crime in the world,
   it is tragic that South Africa's law-enforcement officials should
   expend so much energy fighting each other rather than the criminals.
   The police judged that they needed no fewer than 20 armed officers to
   arrest Mr Nel at his home. On the hopeful side, the charges against Mr
   Selebi show that no one yet is above the law. But if they turn out to
   be true, it will further reduce confidence in a police force that is
   often perceived, at best, as merely incompetent.


   Regret and relief as British soldiers lose hope in Iraq

   THE biggest success of Britain's unhappy four-year occupation of Basra
   was its final departure from the city. Under cover of darkness, the
   500-odd men of the 4 Rifles Battlegroup rumbled out of Basra Palace in
   their armoured vehicles on September 2nd with hardly a shot fired or
   bomb detonated.

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                                    Under new management 

   The soldiers, who had been under almost daily attack, were formally
   "repositioned" to the airport a few miles away. Britain would honour
   its "obligations" in Iraq, said Gordon Brown, the prime minister. But
   after losing some 170 soldiers there, the army knows it is on its way
   out. The question is when it will leave for good.

   Mr Brown will have more to say on the subject in October. His aim will
   be to distance himself from the unpopular war in Iraq without
   undermining fatally his relationship with the Bush administration. The
   betting is that he will keep the current 5,000 troops in Iraq until
   the spring, and then draw them down to about 3,000.

   Based at the airport, the troops will maintain the headquarters and
   logistical support for allied forces in south-eastern Iraq, as well as
   providing special forces to fight alongside the Americans farther
   north. Britain is also supposed to protect southern supply routes and
   maintain "overwatch" for Iraqi forces--training and armed
   back-up--after it hands over control of Basra province later in the
   autumn. In practice, though, the British have no permanent presence on
   so-called "Route Tampa" from Kuwait to Baghdad, and prefer to stay out
   of the way of American convoys. They will do everything to avoid
   having to shoot their way back into Basra.

   Apart from defending themselves from rocket and mortar attacks at the
   airport, the main concern of the British army will be to preserve its
   public image, fending off accusations that it has failed and is
   betraying its allies by leaving. Britain says, with much wishful
   thinking, that Iraqi forces are now able to take charge of security.
   That contention seemed to hold this week as Basra went quiet.
   Lieutenant-Colonel Patrick Sanders, the commander of the 4 Rifles
   Battlegroup, said that 90% of the violence in Basra had been directed
   at the British. Senior officers wonder whether the army chief, General
   Sir Richard Dannatt, was right when he said last year that the British
   had become part of the problem.

   Even if he is right, Britain seems to be at cross-purposes with
   America, which has increased its troops in Baghdad. The loudest
   American critics of Britain are the strongest advocates of the
   "surge", such as retired General Jack Keane. He claims American
   officers are frustrated by Britain's "general disengagement" from
   Basra. Pentagon officials say they accept with misgivings Britain's
   withdrawal, but worry about Mr Brown's intentions.

   They are not alone. Australian and other allied forces in southern
   Iraq fear they may be left in the lurch. Some Australian commanders
   draw comparisons with the fiasco of the British-led assault (and later
   retreat) at Gallipoli in the first world war. They are joking, but the
   British army's reputation for counter-insurgency warfare has been
   damaged. And it was just a few years ago that British soldiers
   patrolling Basra in soft berets mocked the Americans for staying in
   their armoured vehicles.

   The British console themselves with the thought that the real fault
   lies with America and its "intellectually bankrupt" post-war strategy,
   as their former army chief, General Sir Mike Jackson, calls it in a
   new book. And the army is still up for the fight in Afghanistan, where
   more troops may be sent. If that effort also ends in failure, however,
   the army will find it hard to shift the blame to anyone else.


   Some political prisoners have been freed but many more are still in
   jail

   AN ETHIOPIAN federal court judge surprised everyone this week by
   throwing out the charges of genocide and treason brought against
   opposition politicians and their allies arising from the violent
   protests against the general-election results of 2005. The clemency
   was not all it appeared, but it is good news all the same.

   Twenty-five of the 100 or more suspects were freed from prison
   immediately, most of them journalists and publishers. However,
   opposition leaders, including Berhanu Nega and Hailu Shawel, remain
   behind bars. They now face separate charges of attempting to overthrow
   the government of President Meles Zenawi through the street protests
   that led to the deaths of at least 193 civilians and six policemen
   after the flawed election. An independent inquiry collapsed when
   several of its judges fled abroad, citing threats and government
   attempts at a cover-up.

   Human-rights groups are heartened by the judge's decision but point
   out that the remaining charges still carry the possibility of a death
   sentence or life in prison. Opposition supporters are divided. Some
   think their leaders should now defend the charges, which they have so
   far refused to do. The verdict will relieve foreign diplomats in Addis
   Ababa, the capital; they have been tying themselves in knots to defend
   the failings of a government that is one of their largest recipients
   of aid.

   This is particularly true of the United States. Despite the misgivings
   of some congressmen, who think Mr Meles a dictator, some in the Bush
   administration see "Christian" Ethiopia (where half the people are in
   fact Muslim) as a bulwark against Islamist expansion in the Horn of
   Africa. Proof of that came to light recently with the embarrassing
   revelation that Ethiopia had been allowed to buy arms from North
   Korea, despite the UN sanctions against that country that America had
   insisted on.

   The Americans were also indirectly involved in the detention of 41
   "terror suspects" in Ethiopian prisons after the rout of Islamist
   forces in Somalia in January. The Ethiopians, who led the war against
   the Islamists, say the prisoners were not held secretly and that they
   had consular and legal representation. But they do admit that American
   and other foreign intelligence agents interrogated some of them; most
   of them are now due to be released.

   So where are the terrorists who were supposed to have been rounded up
   after the fall of Somalia's Islamists? Ethiopia is still embroiled in
   Somalia. Some Somalis say that last week's fighting in Mogadishu,
   their capital, caused more than 1,000 deaths. But no al-Qaeda people
   or Somali jihadists were reported killed or captured. Bad news for
   Ethiopia--and by extension America.


   A bitter old row shows no sign of fading


   "SHOULD Eritrea launch another war, we will make certain it will never
   ever dream of entertaining or thinking about war again." So said
   Ethiopia's prime minister, Meles Zenawi, in a recent speech to
   Parliament. His country did not seek war, he stressed. But if Eritrea
   launched a "suicidal" attack, it would be driven into the sea.

   Eritrea has heard it before. Ethiopia tried to drive it into the sea
   at Massawa between 1998 and 2000, and failed. Instead, 70,000 on both
   sides died in trench warfare; a stalemate led to a truce. This time Mr
   Zenawi's belligerence comes as the Eritrea-Ethiopia Border Commission
   wound up business this month, with no agreed demarcation. In 2002 it
   awarded the disputed village of Badme to Eritrea. Ethiopia rejected
   the verdict, and has since used diplomatic verbiage to obfuscate and
   stall.

   Eritrea naturally took the commission at its word but under its
   authoritarian president, Issaias Afwerki, has alienated just about
   every sympathiser. As his rule has become harsher and more erratic,
   the border issue has loomed larger in Eritrea's national psyche. Mr
   Afwerki may disgust his compatriots by torturing and imprisoning his
   critics. But he knows Eritreans will back him over Badme.

   The border is more militarised than ever. According to the
   International Crisis Group, a think-tank, Eritrea has 4,000 troops
   inside a supposedly demilitarised buffer zone and a further 120,000
   dug in along its side of the craggy border that is 1,000km (621 miles)
   long. On its side, Ethiopia has 100,000 troops.

   A UN monitoring force is meant to pack up next month but may stay on.
   The tension gives both countries an excuse to spend more on guns and
   spies, some to be turned on domestic enemies. Neither country can
   afford such things. Ethiopia, at least 75m-strong, is bogged down in
   Somalia and fighting separatists in the Ogaden desert; Mr Zenawi says
   he is putting Ethiopia's defence budget up by 17% to $390m. Eritrea,
   with only 5m people, simply cannot keep up.


   A new bill is supposed to give black Zimbabweans more economic power


   DOING any business at all in Zimbabwe is no mean feat these days.
   Sky-rocketing inflation-- officially estimated at 7,600% in July but
   probably over 10,000%--unemployment at 80% and crippling power and
   fuel shortages are daunting enough. On top of that, price controls
   slapped on in June have emptied shelves and depleted stocks, bringing
   many shops and factories to a standstill. The official exchange rate
   was devalued last week from 250 to 30,000 Zimbabwean dollars to the
   American one. But this new rate is still at least eight times less
   than what you can get on the black market. Now, following the land
   redistribution that has devastated agriculture, President Robert
   Mugabe's government seems to have declared open season on other parts
   of the economy as well.

   In the next few weeks, Parliament looks set to pass the Indigenisation
   and Economic Empowerment Bill that might ultimately transfer at least
   51% of all businesses into local black hands. This is in addition to a
   law which already reserves 60% of most listed companies to local
   blacks. Zimbabwe's government is not the only one in the region trying
   to involve more blacks in the economy, none more so than South Africa
   with its "black economic empowerment" programme. But Zimbabwe's is
   probably the only one so far to declare, in effect, that whites or
   foreigners should not own more than half of a company. The bill
   defines indigenous as "any person who before the 18th April 1980
   [Zimbabwe's Independence Day] was disadvantaged by unfair
   discrimination on the grounds of his or her race, and any descendant
   of such person."

   In any event, Zimbabwe's bill contains a lot of ambiguity, and gives a
   lot of loosely-defined discretion to the government. It is unclear
   whether the transfer would apply only to future mergers, demergers,
   restructurings and transfers, or to all existing companies. Moreover,
   the minister for indigenisation and empowerment would have to approve
   all ownership transfers and would have the power to impose alternative
   local partners if he disapproves of those involved in the proposed
   transactions. He would also have the authority to exempt selected
   companies from the ownership requirements for a certain period. Though
   the bill says little about compensation, there is a proposal for a
   fund that would help Zimbabweans finance their acquisitions through,
   among other things, a company levy. So businesses may end up paying
   for their own change of ownership.

   In the past, similar threats to indigenise parts of the economy have
   come to nothing, so there is still a chance the bill will be quietly
   buried. However, its appearance now is hardly likely to delight new
   investors. For example Orascom Telecom, a mobile-phone group based in
   Egypt, is already fighting to protect its investments in Zimbabwe. It
   owns 60% of Telecel, a local operator whose licence the government
   threatened to cancel unless Orascom reduced its ownership to 49%.

   Other companies are trying to head off the threat by taking the
   initiative. Old Mutual, a financial institution with roots in South
   Africa, has just said it would sell 20% of its Zimbabwean operation to
   local staff, though it maintains this has nothing to do with the bill.
   Edcon, one of South Africa's biggest retailers, donated part of its
   business in Zimbabwe to local staff a few years ago, bringing its
   share down to 40%.

   South Africa's Standard Bank and Britain's Barclays, which own all or
   a majority of their Zimbabwean subsidiaries, are taking a wait-and-see
   approach. But Heinz, a food giant involved in Zimbabwe since the
   1980s, announced last week that it had sold its 51% stake in Olivine,
   a company dealing in cooking oil, margarine and soap, to the
   government. It will leave Zimbabwe altogether. Most investors,
   however, are hoping to hang on until Zimbabwe turns the corner and
   starts rebuilding its once flourishing economy.

   On the other hand, the country's economic crisis is also attracting
   investors keen to pick up cheap assets. But they need a big appetite
   for risk. Earlier this year, Lonrho, a conglomerate with a long
   history of trading in Africa, announced the creation of a Zimbabwean
   subsidiary that would primarily invest in property, infrastructure and
   hotels. LonZim has already raised over 32m ($66.2m) and is expected
   to list in London shortly to bring in more cash.

   Imara, a financial company focusing on Africa, opened a fund investing
   in Zimbabwean firms in April. But the money poured in faster than it
   could invest, and it had to stop taking new money for a month in May.
   The fund has now invested $12-13m mainly in companies listed on the
   local stock exchange--a novel form of disaster investment.


   Even the parts of Somalia that were steady are looking shaky again


   A PECULIARITY of Somalia is that while the south of the country,
   including its broken capital, Mogadishu, has burned, the north has
   been stable. Now, to the horror of those trying to put Mogadishu back
   together again, the north is beginning to crack too. Fighting broke
   out this week between Somaliland, the northern strip that has been
   virtually independent of the rest of the country for some 16 years,
   and Puntland, a semi-autonomous territory in the north-east (see map).
   Somaliland says it has driven Puntland forces out of Los Anod, a town
   in the disputed Sool region, killing six Puntlanders and injuring or
   capturing another 40-plus. Puntland says its soldiers have retaken the
   town. Yet another war seems to be breaking out.

   Sool is split between sub-clans backing either Somaliland or Puntland,
   while some of them want autonomy for Sool itself. Somaliland, a former
   British colony that was separate from the larger parts that were run
   by Italy, declared independence in 1991 and has since sought
   international recognition. Puntland's sense of identity is less
   strong; it has seen itself as a building block for a future federal
   Somalia.

   But Puntland is losing its grip. The Sool dispute has been compounded
   by the secession of much of the Sanaag region from Puntland, to form
   yet another self-governing entity in the north. Drawing on its history
   as a sultanate, Sanaag declared independence in July, renamed itself
   Makhir, and chose Badhan as its capital. Tension between Makhir and
   Puntland is high.

   A still worse headache for Puntland is the departure of its strongman,
   Abdullahi Yusuf, to become president of Somalia. He ran Puntland with
   authority and ambition, grandiosely hoping to turn it into the Horn of
   Africa's Dubai. When he went south, he took with him a lot of Puntland
   troops, vehicles, weapons and ammunition. Their departure emboldened
   other northerners with dreams of secession or autonomy, and may give
   Somaliland the edge if the dispute over Sool leads to war.

   Oil and gas add fuel to the ferment. Exploration rights in Puntland
   have been sold several times over. Somalia's prickly prime minister,
   Ali Mohamed Gedi, was furious when Mr Yusuf signed oil agreements
   without telling him, including one with a Chinese company. Mr Gedi has
   also refused to endorse exploration deals signed by Puntland's
   government.

   Meanwhile, Mogadishu is getting worse again. Fewer children are going
   to school. The city's markets are stagnant--quite the opposite of the
   government's assertions that things are back to normal. Government
   troops and the Ethiopian forces propping up Somalia's government are
   still being attacked by bombs, grenades and snipers of the Islamist
   militias ousted by Ethiopians early this year. The African Union
   promised to send 8,000 peacekeepers and then hand authority to a UN
   mission later this year. But several AU countries failed to honour
   their pledges. Uganda is still the only African one to have sent
   troops; with just 1,600 of them there, the UN is unlikely to come in
   and take over.

   The American administration and other Western governments still want
   to back Somalia's transitional government until elections due in 2009.
   A recent reconciliation conference in Mogadishu passed off without
   rancour, itself something of a success, and was bolstered by the
   apparent failure of a rival meeting, mainly of Somali Islamists, in
   the Eritrean capital, Asmara.


   Will the political dissidents be spared?

   EARLIER this year, Ethiopian courts released many of the country's
   most important political dissidents from the grim Kaliti jail on the
   outskirts of Addis Ababa. They had been there since they were rounded
   up by police following opposition protests (in which 193 people were
   killed) against flawed presidential elections in 2005. In another
   promising sign of reconciliation, charges against the 38 remaining
   defendants were reduced from treason and genocide to "outrage against
   the constitution" and "incitement to armed rebellion".

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

            Berhanu Nega, mayor of Addis Ababa, awaits his fate

   So it was a real shock this week when the state prosecutor called for
   all 38 to be put to death. Those facing the firing squad include Hailu
   Shawel, the elderly head of the Coalition for Unity and Democracy
   (CUD), the main opposition party, and Berhanu Nega, the elected mayor
   of the capital, Addis Ababa.

   Surely not, say queasy diplomats, aid types and even many in the
   Ethiopian government. The prime minister, Meles Zenawi, has made some
   progress in building infrastructure, tackling poverty and attracting
   foreign investment. He has even managed to turn himself into a close
   ally of America by invading Somalia last December to vanquish the
   Islamist regime in Mogadishu, suspected of harbouring al-Qaeda people.
   The last thing Mr Zenawi needs now is the terrible publicity,
   especially in America, that such executions would bring.

   The judge adjourned sentencing until later this month. Even if a death
   sentence is handed down, a carefully worded apology by the dissidents
   could let them walk free. Mr Zenawi would probably go along with that.
   There is now almost as much that unites the government and the
   opposition as divides them. Some back his invasion of Somalia; many
   others agree on the threats posed by Eritrea, Islamist terrorism and
   separatist groups within Ethiopia.

   But Ethiopians are stubborn. Most of the 38 dissidents have refused
   even to recognise the court's legitimacy or to offer a defence. They
   may be unwilling to sign an apology. Then there is the government's
   instinct for brutality. In spasms, it has muzzled, beaten and jailed
   the opposition since the elections of 2005. Thousands of young
   Ethiopians were sent to prison camps. The press has been stamped on.

   All of this puts the United States in a quandary. Ethiopia, despite
   its human-rights record, is a key ally against terrorism. America
   backed Ethiopia's invasion of Somalia. Now it is pressing Mr Zenawi
   urgently to let the dissidents go free.


   Why has the country's national prosecutor been suspended?


   AS THE business of nominating candidates for the leadership of the
   ruling African National Congress (ANC) gets under way this week, the
   atmosphere, already clouded by arguments over who should succeed
   President Thabo Mbeki as party leader, is turning nastier. Mr Mbeki
   recently suspended Vusi Pikoli, head of the National Prosecuting
   Authority (NPA), who oversees an investigative unit known as the
   Scorpions, for an "irretrievable breakdown" in relations with his
   boss, the justice minister.

   It has since been reported that, before his suspension, Mr Pikoli had
   taken out a warrant to arrest Jackie Selebi, who heads the South
   African police. An inquiry has now been launched into whether Mr
   Pikoli--but not Mr Selebi--should be fired. But the government has
   been so vague and tight-lipped about Mr Pikoli's suspension that it is
   feeding a host of conspiracy theories that could affect the ANC's
   selection, in December, of the party's next president. Whoever wins
   that contest is virtually certain to become the country's next leader
   too.

   Mr Pikoli has overseen the most recent bout of the NPA's six-year
   investigation into the activities of Jacob Zuma, the country's former
   deputy president, who was fired in 2005 but still seeks South Africa's
   top job. Charges of corruption and fraud against Mr Zuma were
   dismissed last year. But the NPA has not ruled out the possibility of
   charging him again.

   The Scorpions, set up in the late 1990s to investigate corruption and
   organised crime, have been accused of abusing their power and being
   used to settle political scores. Critics say they should be disbanded
   or absorbed into the police. A government-appointed commission
   suggested they be kept within the NPA but report to the minister of
   safety and security.

   Mr Selebi has been under fire for some time for the country's
   breathtaking level of violent crime. Calls for his sacking became more
   strident when he admitted to being a friend of Glen Agliotti, a
   suspected crime boss arrested by the Scorpions. They have been
   investigating Mr Selebi, who insists his hands are clean and has kept
   his job.

   The opposition has been demanding a fuller explanation, so far in
   vain. Mr Pikoli secured impressive conviction rates. But did he
   overstep his authority? He is said to have kept his boss in the dark
   over several big cases, including Mr Selebi's. And people disagree
   over what the NPA's independence really means. The opposition has
   questioned the independence of the inquiry into whether Mr Pikoli is
   fit for the job, since it is being headed by an ANC veteran and former
   speaker of parliament, Frene Ginwala.

   Was Mr Pikoli's suspension due to the arrest warrant? People in the
   president's office deny that the decision was meant to protect Mr
   Selebi and refuse to say whether a warrant for his arrest was ever
   obtained. So does the NPA. But Mr Mbeki's reluctance to explain things
   more fully has fuelled suspicions that state institutions are subject
   to the vagaries and bitter rivalries of ANC politics.


   With rancorous debate, the ANC elects a new leader 

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP


   AFTER months of acrimony, the African National Congress (ANC) has
   elected Jacob Zuma to be its new leader. In a ballot of almost 4,000
   delegates at the national conference of South Africa's ruling party in
   the small town of Polokwane, Mr Zuma defeated the incumbent, Thabo
   Mbeki, by a wider margin than some had predicted; 2,329 votes to
   1,505. Mr Zuma, formerly the party's deputy leader, is now in prime
   position (though not certain) to succeed Mr Mbeki as the country's
   next president. Mr Mbeki, who has served two terms, has to step down
   as head of state in 2009.

   For a party renowned for its iron discipline, the scenes in the tents
   at Polokwane were unprecedented. Mosiuoa Lekota, the ANC's chairman
   and a supporter of Mr Mbeki, was booed and heckled from a boisterous
   floor. True to his style, Mr Mbeki delivered a dreary, technocratic
   speech that lasted for over two hours, listing the socio-economic
   achievements of the past decade. He ended by lamenting the increasing
   patronage, corruption and unprincipled politicking within the party--a
   thinly veiled swipe at his rival--and called for moral regeneration.
   But Mr Zuma's supporters broke out in songs supporting their hero as
   soon as Mr Mbeki had finished his address. They insisted on a manual
   counting of the votes, for fear that the Mbeki camp would rig the
   result.

   Mr Mbeki tried to rebut accusations that he does not tolerate dissent
   and has centralised power. But he failed to convince the party's rank
   and file, who strongly favour the more congenial Mr Zuma. For the
   first time in decades, the party's local branches were genuinely able
   to choose their leader; in the past he would have been selected by the
   party's top brass. A delegate from the Eastern Cape, Mr Mbeki's
   homeland, argued that change was needed. She complained that public
   services were still dismal in the rural part of the province where she
   lives. Another delegate, from the Free State, argued that Mr
   Mbeki--who has been at the helm of the party for almost a decade--had
   been in charge for too long already.

   Yet despite this victory, Mr Zuma is by no means assured of the
   national presidency in 2009. For a start, his past could return to
   haunt him. He was acquitted of rape last year, but the National
   Prosecuting Authority, after years of investigation, could well charge
   him for corruption again. His supporters dismiss his legal problems as
   a political conspiracy, but Mr Zuma would have to resign if convicted.
   In that case, Kgalema Motlanthe, the party's secretary-general, who
   has been elected as the party's number two, would take over.

   Whatever happens, the relationship between the government, dominated
   by Mr Mbeki's faithful, and an ANC led by Mr Zuma will be awkward. The
   next few months could see either a patching-up of the rift over the
   succession or a purge inside the party of Mbeki loyalists. There are
   even questions over whether Mr Mbeki will finish his full term as the
   country's president, although Mr Zuma has said that he sees no reason
   for his early departure.


   But there is still a chance to stave off a full-blown insurgency

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

                       All too familiar in Mogadishu


   EXPERIENCE teaches that stability in Somalia depends on peace in
   Mogadishu. So recent events in the capital are now the cause of real
   concern--again. The United Nations reckons that 40,000 of the city's
   2m residents have fled increasingly heavy fighting since February. On
   March 21st at least 15 people were killed in one fire-fight, the
   heaviest since the Islamist militias were chased out of the city last
   December. In dreadful scenes reminiscent of the shooting down of an
   American Black Hawk helicopter in the city in 1993, the bodies of two
   dead soldiers were dragged through the streets before being set alight
   by chanting mobs.

   The violence has increased dramatically since the arrival of a Ugandan
   peacekeeping force. The Ugandan troops, under African Union (AU)
   command, have formally taken over from Ethiopia, whose troops have
   occupied Mogadishu since the retreat of the Islamists. The Ethiopians
   are unpopular with ordinary Somalis, who see them as occupiers; the
   Ugandans are also viewed by militants as nothing more than interfering
   foreigners. An Ethiopian soldier was probably among those killed on
   March 21st. Some Ethiopian troops have left, and those who remain have
   withdrawn from public view, including from the presidential palace.
   But they are unlikely to withdraw completely just yet.

   In part, that reflects a failure of the AU. Only 4,000 of the 8,000
   troops the organisation has requested for Somalia have so far been
   committed; of these, only the Ugandans are on the ground. It will be
   hard for them to pacify Mogadishu, even at full strength. The best the
   AU green helmets can hope for, say Somali watchers, is to secure key
   installations and road junctions. A Ugandan force commander says his
   men will patrol only in neighbourhoods where they are welcome. That
   will make them less of a target, but it will also put some areas of
   Mogadishu dangerously off-limits.

   Much depends on the success of a touted national reconciliation
   process. Somalia's transitional government has been bullied and
   bankrolled into making a show of forgiveness, but it is unclear
   whether a national-unity conference planned for April will amount to
   much. Foreign diplomats say the government should reach out to
   moderate Islamists while excluding Mogadishu's warlords. But even with
   the best intentions that is a hard act to pull off. The warlords are
   emboldened, and may be responsible for some of the mortar attacks.
   They certainly see themselves as having legitimate claims to be in
   government.

   But remnant Islamist fighters still account for most of the violence.
   There may be over a thousand of them in or around Mogadishu. Some have
   formed new jihadist groups. Gauging their strength is not easy,
   particularly since they have taken to paying freelance gunmen to
   attack government and Ethiopian positions. The more sophisticated
   nature of recent attacks, together with pugilistic broadcasts made by
   some jihadist commanders in hiding, suggest that they may have the
   makings of a serious insurgency.

   The next few weeks will be critical. The peacekeepers need to hold
   their nerve. The government has to reach out to disaffected clans,
   especially by including them in the building of a new national army.
   And the Islamists could yet miscalculate, as they have done before. A
   grouping of Islamic courts in Mogadishu became popular last year
   because it opposed violence and restored order. Calling for violence
   and provoking disorder could swing the people back behind the
   government.


   In an [3]article on reforming Nigeria's oil industry (September 29th),
   we said that the country's production had sunk to just 750,000 barrels
   a day, owing to violence in the Delta region. What we meant to say is
   that oil production had fallen by 750,000 b/d, well below Nigeria's
   capacity of 3m b/d, but not nearly as catastrophic. Sorry.


   Few Arabs are in the mood to give Mr Bush the benefit of their doubt



   DURING half a century of American engagement with the Arab world,
   American presidents have tended to get nicer to the Arabs towards the
   end of their term, when they have less to lose at home by doing so.
   With his Middle East tour, George Bush has stuck to that rule. The
   difference is that, with America's failure to sort out Iraq or make
   peace between Israelis and Palestinians or to persuade Muslims that
   the war on terror is not unfairly directed at themselves, no other
   president has had to control quite so much damage.

   A speech in Abu Dhabi, capital of the United Arab Emirates, was touted
   as the keynote of his seven-country tour. In it, he touched on
   familiar themes, such as the wickedness of Iran's rulers and his
   belief that only democracy can free people from oppression and
   insecurity. "You cannot stand up a modern and confident nation when
   you do not allow people to voice their legitimate criticisms," he
   said.

   While officials from the host country quietly distanced themselves
   from America's Iran policy, Arab commentators questioned whether the
   head of an administration responsible for the miseries of Abu Ghraib
   and Guantnamo could preach human rights or whether Mr Bush's lavish
   praise for some Gulf monarchs' gestures towards democracy, such as
   holding highly restricted elections, meant that he cared more about
   securing cheap oil than promoting real political reform.

   The state of American-Arab relations seemed more sharply depicted in
   Saudi Arabia, when Mr Bush joined in a traditional dance with Prince
   Salman bin Abdul Aziz, the powerful governor of Riyadh, the Saudi
   capital, and a possible future king. Meant to display tribal
   solidarity as he danced, a sword-clutching Mr Bush looked awkward as
   he shuffled clumsily, arm in arm with his robed companion.

   It was, in fact, America that was supplying the real weapons, with an
   announcement, coinciding with the presidential tour, that it would
   sell Saudi Arabia 900 guided-bomb kits worth $123m as part of a
   longer-term pledge to transfer some $20 billion in arms to its Arab
   Gulf allies. Yet the sale's hoped-for favourable impact dissipated
   when an Israeli military source asserted that Israel, which is getting
   10,000 American precision-guided bombs free, would get a smarter
   version. This comment was meant to reassure America's pro-Israeli
   Congress about the Saudi sale, but certainly managed to annoy the
   Saudis. "The region needs smart initiatives, not smart bombs," growled
   an editorial in Kuwait's daily al-Rai al-Am.

   Despite the wave of sourness in the Middle East towards Mr Bush's
   visit, signs were noted that his administration, albeit late in its
   tenure, was paying more attention to Arab concerns. Assuaging fears
   that taking too hard a line with Iran could lead to a conflict that
   would hurt the whole region, Mr Bush tempered his tough language with
   the hope that if the "talented Iranian people" moderated their rulers'
   behaviour, Iran and America could become best of friends. Mr Bush also
   praised a new Iraqi law (see [3]article) to let some former members of
   Saddam Hussein's Baath party regain their jobs; some Arab commentators
   noted that it was Mr Bush's administration that had demanded their
   dismissal in the first place. The president's repeated determination
   to bring about a "viable, contiguous" Palestinian state also went some
   way to alter the impression that his administration has been loth to
   press Israel to make concessions.

   Though urging Arab oil producers to boost output to reduce the high
   price of oil, Mr Bush was careful to say that he knew many were
   already producing at full capacity. Such courtesy may reflect, among
   other things, America's appreciation that rich Gulf producers have
   declined so far to uncouple their currencies from the dollar, despite
   its falling value and advice from many local economists. Arab
   investors, including the sovereign funds of Kuwait and Abu Dhabi,
   sound willing to inject billions into wobbly American financial houses
   such as Citibank and Merrill Lynch.

   Uglier realities did intrude, however. In Beirut, an American embassy
   vehicle narrowly evaded a bomb-blast that killed three bystanders,
   further shaking the hold of Lebanon's pro-American government, which
   has been locked in a stalemate with its opponents led by Hizbullah,
   the Iranian-backed Shia militia. And an Israeli raid against
   rocket-firers in Gaza killed 18 Palestinians, the highest day's death
   toll for months. The dead included a son of a former foreign minister
   of Hamas, the Islamist group that seized the strip last summer. He
   blamed Mr Bush for giving Israel a "green light" for the killings.


   A brave woman seeks justice and historical recognition for past wrongs

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                 Still seeking justice for their children


   TYRANTS tend to be oddly punctilious about recording their atrocities.
   But even by the standards of his peers, Mengistu Haile Mariam,
   Ethiopia's former dictator, was an incorrigible archivist. The
   security services of his regime, which took power in 1974, learned the
   habits of bureaucratic procedure from true masters, the East Germans,
   who sent Stasi agents to Ethiopia as consultants. When Mr Mengistu
   fell and fled in 1991, he left behind thousands of pages of memoranda,
   death warrants and even the minutes of a meeting in 1975 when his
   ruling committee, known as the Derg, voted to murder the imprisoned
   emperor, Haile Selassie.

   These files form the basis for thousands of criminal cases brought by
   an Ethiopian special prosecutor since Mr Mengistu fell. The charge
   sheet and evidence for his trial in absentia for genocide run to some
   8,000 pages. Though he remains a sheltered guest of Zimbabwe's
   president, Robert Mugabe, a court sentenced him this year to life in
   prison, so ending the special prosecutor's work. But what will happen
   to all that fragile and incriminating paper?

   A woman named Hirut Abebe-Jiri has made it her mission to see that the
   historical record is preserved. Herself imprisoned and tortured during
   a purge known as the "Red Terror", Ms Hirut has set up an organisation
   to archive, translate and index the Derg's files, and make them
   available on the internet through a partnership with the University of
   North Dakota in the United States. A Canadian resident, she recently
   went back to Addis Ababa, which she fled as a refugee, and signed an
   agreement with the government that calls for the transfer of the
   documents into the hands of her Ethiopian Red Terror Documentation and
   Research Centre. Her model is Yale University's Cambodian Genocide
   Programme, which documents Khmer Rouge atrocities in the 1970s.

   Despite many trials over the years, many Ethiopians still do not know
   what happened to family members who disappeared during the Red Terror.
   Ms Hirut hopes that her archive and its website will let
   Ethiopians--including those in the diaspora--learn the truth.

   She knows the power of written words: they brought justice in her own
   case. During the Red Terror, Ms Hirut, then 17, was imprisoned and
   beaten up. Years later, she discovered that the man who had ordered
   her torture, a notorious Derg functionary called Kelbessa Negewo, had
   emigrated to the United States and was working as a bellhop at a hotel
   in Atlanta, Georgia. Along with two other former victims, she sued him
   in an American court. The most powerful evidence against him was his
   own memos to his superiors, in which he boasted about his "struggle to
   eliminate the anti-revolutionaries". Last year, after more than a
   decade of legal battles, he was deported back to Ethiopia. He is now
   serving a life sentence for murder.


   Ordinary Zimbabweans find creative ways to survive

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters


   AT FIRST glance, life in Harare appears surprisingly normal. Cars
   still cruise along the streets, shops are still open, children wear
   neat school uniforms, and men and women in suits still talk on mobile
   phones. Yet in Zimbabwe appearances are deceptive. The economy is
   collapsing. Eight in ten people have no formal jobs; inflation,
   officially estimated at more than 3,700%, may actually be twice as
   high.

   So President Robert Mugabe has decided to try to do something about
   the galloping prices of basic goods. Ignoring protests from Gideon
   Gono, the governor of the central bank, Mr Mugabe, who famously
   despises "bookish economics", has sent the police in to order
   shopkeepers to slash their prices, forcing them to sell at a loss. The
   predictable result is huge crowds waiting outside shops to rush in and
   grab whatever they can while the going is good. Factories are
   threatened with being taken over if they stop production. Hundreds of
   shopkeepers have been arrested, accused of not lowering their prices
   enough.

   So basic goods such as cooking oil, soap and meat have disappeared
   from the shelves. At a supermarket in the Fife Avenue shopping centre,
   expensive imported goods are still on sale but the meat counter is
   empty and there is no bread. Luckily, there is a bit of cooking oil.
   Each bottle costs about one-third of a teacher's monthly wage and
   shoppers are allowed to buy only two bottles each. A woman pushing a
   trolley says she spends a good part of the day going from shop to shop
   to find basic items such as sugar or flour.

   Petrol, which was expensive but available after private importers were
   licensed, has now dried up as well, thanks to the enforced price cuts.
   At a petrol station in one of Harare's leafy suburbs, a line of over
   80 cars snakes around the block, overseen by a few policemen and
   soldiers. Without much petrol, public transport, whose fares have also
   been slashed, has become too scarce for commuters. On one of Harare's
   main avenues, crowds wait by the side of the road at night, hoping for
   a ride home. Some people run after a pick-up truck that is already
   full, trying to jump on. It can take hours to get to work in the
   morning.

   Yet most things are available on the black market--for those who can
   afford them. At night, you only have to drive to the right spot and
   young men rush over to offer petrol at more than eight times the
   official price. In the poor district of Mbare, about 3km (two miles or
   so) from Harare's centre, a few people are selling cooking oil and
   sugar at the side of the road; some carry bags of maize flour on their
   heads. But police raids this week have pushed this black market even
   further underground.

   Twenty kilometres outside Harare, a 40-year-old teacher explains that
   she cannot survive on her monthly earnings of 1.9m Zimbabwean dollars,
   equivalent to $7,600 at the official exchange rate but only $7.60 on
   the black market. Her husband makes even less. She walks 5km to work
   every day only "because there is nothing else to do", but some of her
   colleagues no longer show up at all. She grows vegetables in her back
   yard; the greens, she says, are "our chicken and our pork, our eggs
   and our beef".

   Scraping by

   There is no running water for most of the day, so she fills buckets
   and bottles whenever taps work and has to boil the water as it is no
   longer safe to drink. Electricity is also scarce, so she cooks on a
   wood fire in her back yard and buys candles whenever she can afford
   to. She wears a worn-out anorak and woollen hat in her small house, as
   she cannot afford heating to fight the biting winter cold. To feed and
   school her three children, she borrows money to buy a few things, then
   goes to South Africa or Zambia to sell them.

   Many people survive by trading. A 34-year-old professional, who has
   left his job to become a middleman, buys foreign exchange on the black
   market and imports all kinds of stuff, from IT equipment to
   stationery. He then resells at a fat mark-up to local companies that
   cannot risk breaking the foreign-exchange laws. When not driving to
   South Africa, he lounges in his drawing room watching satellite
   television on a wide screen. He says he makes a profit of more than
   $5,000 a month; he lives in a nice residential area where electricity
   and water are always on.

   There is plenty of foreign exchange, he explains. The lucky few with
   access to American dollars at the official rate of 250 Zimbabwe
   dollars to one American greenback are making a killing selling them on
   the black market, where the rate is about 250,000. Getting enough
   local cash has become the main hurdle since restrictions were placed
   on withdrawals. To get around the Z$1.5m daily limit, people open
   multiple bank accounts or pay a 10% premium to get cash against a bank
   transfer.

   Choked by hyperinflation and arbitrary restrictions, people have
   become increasingly creative to survive. More than 3m have emigrated,
   mainly to South Africa, while a small elite bleeds the economy dry. A
   local businessman says the system will collapse in six months--and
   that Zimbabwe, under new management, will become Africa's fastest
   growing economy. "Then again", he smiles, "we have been saying this
   for years."


   A country still dangerously adrift


   THE prime minister of Somalia, Ali Mohamed Gedi, has bowed out after a
   year of rivalry with the country's president, Abdullahi Yusuf--in the
   interest, he says, of national unity. In his resignation speech, Mr
   Gedi said he had survived five assassination attempts in three years
   at the helm. A veterinarian, he has seen his share of bone-crunching.
   His father was a colonel in Somalia's intelligence service during its
   steadier Soviet-backed years, a trade Mr Gedi may also have dabbled
   in.

   It was probably the prime minister of next-door Ethiopia, Meles
   Zenawi, who advised Mr Gedi to go. The pair are close. In his days as
   a rebel fighter, Mr Zenawi was protected by Mr Gedi's father. Mr Gedi
   belongs to the Hawiye clan, the most powerful in Mogadishu, Somalia's
   ravaged capital. He has been unpopular with Hawiye elders, some of
   whom have Islamist sympathies so are hostile to Somalia's feeble,
   Ethiopia-backed government. It is unclear whether or not his exit will
   make it easier for Mr Yusuf, now squarely in charge, to strike a deal
   with the Hawiye to deprive jihadist fighters of clan support and
   shelter.

   Mr Gedi flew straight out of Somalia to Kenya, the speed of his
   departure showing how even the toughest patriots are loth to build a
   life in Mogadishu. Most educated emigrs return without their
   children, as life for them is getting worse. The UN says school
   attendance has collapsed; malnutrition and cholera are common.

   The all-out fighting that ripped through Mogadishu in the spring has
   not resumed, but the seaside city remains violent. Jihadist rebels pin
   down Ethiopian troops and peacekeepers from Uganda, the only country
   willing to send troops under the aegis of the African Union. The
   failure of moderate Islamists to create a plausible negotiating
   position at a recent meeting in Eritrea may have strengthened the
   armed radicals, who hope to foment a holy war with "Christian"
   Ethiopia. The threat is not restricted to the Horn of Africa. British
   intelligence says that Somali jihadists may be involved in future
   terrorist attacks on Britain and elsewhere, as they have been already.

   The recent killing of yet another Somali journalist illustrates the
   chaos. Bashir Nur Gedi (no close relation) was the eighth journalist
   to be murdered in Mogadishu this year. Other Somali reporters have
   gone into hiding or left the country; both the government and
   Islamists have targeted them for trying to report freely.

   A sharp increase in piracy is also telling. During their time in power
   last year, Islamists managed to curb attacks on foreign vessels. Now
   they are back up to record numbers. The Americans pursued two ships
   hijacked by pirates this week, one of them a North Korean freighter
   whose crew managed to kill two of the pirates before the Americans
   arrived. There is no sign yet of a French naval escort promised by
   France's new president, Nicolas Sarkozy.


   A small European force runs into big problems in central Africa 

   THE idea of sending several thousand European Union (EU) soldiers and
   a bunch of UN policemen to protect 400,000 displaced civilians and
   Sudanese refugees from Darfur who have been sheltering in eastern Chad
   seems well-intentioned, as does sending a handful more to the remote
   north of the neighbouring Central African Republic (CAR). Here, too,
   civilians are being terrorised by local rebels and by some from
   neighbouring countries who use swathes of the CAR's lawless terrain
   for rest, transit and launching attacks.

   But a proposed EU-led mission is fraught with complications. It was
   supposed to be up and running by the end of the year but is far behind
   schedule. The latest hitch is a lack of helicopters, essential for
   ferrying 3,700 soldiers and 300 UN police around 200,000 square
   kilometres (77,000 square miles) of Africa's harshest terrain. Some
   diplomats think the deployment will be postponed until next May.

   Even if the force gets there, it is not clear how it will operate. In
   UN-speak, it will have a "multi-dimensional presence". The soldiers
   and police are meant to stop Darfur's violence spreading west by
   sealing the border. They must also protect the civilians who have fled
   and the aid workers looking after them in Chad. How they will do this
   is fuzzy. The mission's UN Chapter 7 mandate could theoretically let
   it go on the offensive to stop attacks. Or it could simply monitor the
   situation.

   Given the force's limitations, the latter is likelier. A report issued
   by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology reckons the EU would need
   over 10,000 men and a lot of air power. Instead, the force will hope
   its mere presence will be a deterrent.

   Due to be led by an Irishman, the bulk of its soldiers will be French,
   plus some Austrians, Dutchmen, Poles and Swedes. But herein lies
   another problem. France can provide these troops as it already has a
   base in Chad, a former colony. It is already embroiled in existing
   conflicts in both Chad and the CAR, another former possession. So the
   humanitarian intent and neutrality of the EU force is being queried.

   France has, for instance, been using special forces to fight rebels in
   the CAR's north-east. The proposed EU force in that country will, in
   fact, consist of these same 200-odd soldiers merely swapping berets.
   In Chad, France gives logistical and intelligence help to a disliked
   president, Idriss Dby, in his battle against rebels in his country's
   east; some, in turn, have declared war on France and have warned the
   EU that its force will be treated as the enemy because of France's
   participation in it.

   The CAR's government, on the other hand, is keen for anyone to come
   and help control the country's lawless north. Villagers, businessmen
   trying to ply their trade and even the rebels operating there say that
   they, too, want stability. But those who have fled the region's
   violence are sceptical about what the soldiers will really be able to
   do. "I hear things on the radio about this force but let's see what
   happens," says Mamadou Yusuf, an elderly Sudanese refugee from Darfur
   who fled to a camp in the north-east of the CAR. "For now we are
   staying here."


   The official opposition picks its leader for a pretty thankless task


   SHE is almost certain never to become South Africa's president. It is
   virtually unthinkable that her party, the Democratic Alliance (DA),
   would ever push the ruling African National Congress (ANC) out of
   power. But South Africa badly needs a vigorous opposition to keep the
   ANC on its toes, call it to account, pick holes in some of its
   policies, and offer people alternative ideas if not the likelihood of
   an alternative party in power. For sure, the looming race within the
   ANC to succeed President Thabo Mbeki, who must bow out in 2009, is far
   more important. But the election on May 6th of Helen Zille as leader
   of the DA, to succeed Tony Leon, is a notable event. It is vital for
   the well-being of South African democracy that she makes her mark.

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                             Zille salutes her supporters

   After 13 years as leader of what has become South Africa's main
   opposition, Mr Leon voluntarily stepped down, enabling Ms Zille, an
   energetic mayor of Cape Town, easily to defeat two rivals for the DA's
   top job. Her supporters ululated and blew horns, dancing and singing
   re ya lewena (we are going with you). Mr Leon left the stage with
   cheers, fireworks and kwaito, a South African version of hip hop.

   He has done a good job, so far as it goes. Since 1994, what is now the
   DA has evolved through several changes and alliances. At its core is
   the old Progressive Party, whose leonine survivor, Helen Suzman, was
   for years the sole liberal opponent of government in the all-white
   apartheid-era Parliament. Competing in 1994 as the Democratic Party
   under Mr Leon, it got a paltry 1.7% of the vote. In the last general
   election, in 2004, as the Democratic Alliance, it got 12.4%. In local
   elections last year it got nearly 15%, and it now heads a coalition
   that runs Cape Town.

   The cheeky chappie goes

   Unlike many in the ANC, who think that national unity requires
   consensus politics, Mr Leon, a clever, bouncy lawyer, believes
   democracy must be adversarial. He refused a cabinet post in Nelson
   Mandela's government of national unity. The ANC has generally detested
   Mr Leon as confrontational, abrasive and arrogant. For his part, as an
   outspoken social and economic liberal, he castigates the ANC
   for--among other things--its authoritarian and centralising
   tendencies. He has also accused it of racism, including making snide
   remarks about his Jewishness.

   The DA's biggest failure under Mr Leon has been its inability to win
   votes from black South Africans, who make up 80% of the population and
   still overwhelmingly support the ANC; the large bulk of DA votes comes
   from whites and Coloureds (South Africans of mixed race), who each
   represent about 9% of the population. The DA is reckoned to get less
   than 2% of the black vote. Unless it breaks into new territory, it
   will stay on the fringe of South African politics, despite being the
   official opposition in Parliament.

   Last week's DA congress included a fair number of black and Coloured
   delegates, but its top leadership remains predominantly white. In 2005
   most of the DA's black MPs defected to the ANC. Ms Zille, whose
   parents were refugees from Nazi Germany and who herself was a notable
   anti-apartheid journalist and campaigner, will find it hard to make
   inroads into the black vote.

   Her best hope of boosting the DA is to run Cape Town better than the
   ANC runs other big cities, and to show that her party cares for the
   poor and understands the concerns of black voters. If the DA does well
   in Cape Town, it might have a chance of winning Western Cape province
   in the next general election, in 2009. So far Ms Zille has handled
   Cape Town's fragile ruling coalition well and has begun cleaning up
   the city's management. She says she wants to keep both jobs, as mayor
   of Cape Town and running the DA: a hard task.

   In her acceptance speech, Ms Zille signalled her desire to appeal to
   all by speaking in English, in Afrikaans (spoken by whites of mainly
   Dutch descent and by many Coloureds) and in Xhosa, one of the
   country's most widely spoken African languages. She said she wanted to
   build bridges between South Africa's many cultures, and even urged
   everyone in the hall to start learning an extra South African
   language. She said that "black economic empowerment", the ANC's policy
   of spreading the country's wealth more widely, "must include ordinary
   people, not just a small, politically connected elite".

   Sipho Masigo, a young DA city councillor who canvasses Johannesburg's
   largest township looking for recruits, admits it is not easy. He
   joined the DA in 2003, frustrated by the inaction of the ANC
   councillor in charge of the slum that used to be his home. In Soweto,
   Johannesburg's biggest township, he organises training, helps people
   find ways to make ends meet and tells them that democracy needs an
   opposition, pointing at next-door Zimbabwe. People, he says, are
   warming to the idea.

   But the trouble for the DA and its new leader is that South Africa's
   many poor (measures of unemployment range from 25% to 40%) are keener
   on left-wing alternatives to the ANC than on the DA's liberal ideas.
   The ANC's real opposition is from within. The trade unions and the
   Communist Party, both still within the ruling ANC-led alliance, think
   it is too cosy with big business. One day the ANC's left may split
   off, though there is no sign of that happening soon. Meanwhile Ms
   Zille, who is able and courageous, needs to plug away at promoting her
   ideas, however limited her prospects of putting them into practice.


   The small gains for democracy are now being rolled back

   TWO years ago, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt declared that he would
   allow rivals to run against him in the most populous Arab country's
   first open presidential election. This was hailed as another sign that
   political sands were shifting across the Middle East, with power in
   the world's least democratic region at last beginning to pass from
   long-ensconced rulers to their restive subjects. Some even talked of a
   democratic revolution.

   Other signals included the holding of elections in Iraq and Palestine,
   the "Cedar Revolution" that shook Lebanon from Syrian control,
   fairer-than-usual presidential polls in Tunisia, Algeria and Yemen and
   a widening of the political franchise in several Gulf monarchies.
   Voices of dissent grew louder, often via new media such as satellite
   television, even as the Bush administration trumpeted democratisation
   as the surest foil for extremism.

   The sands are still moving, but lately look more like the contents of
   an hourglass that the same old rulers have turned upside-down. Except
   for a few brighter spots, the general trend from Morocco to the
   Persian Gulf has been towards a reinforcement of central control, a
   curtailing of public freedoms, and a fading of hopes for peaceful
   democratic change. Egypt itself, a country that is often seen as an
   Arab bell-wether, provides a useful example.

   The runner-up to Mr Mubarak in the 2005 presidential election, Ayman
   Nour, languishes in prison, charged with forgery. The Muslim
   Brotherhood, which proved its potency as Egypt's main opposition by
   capturing a fifth of parliamentary seats that year, remains officially
   unrecognised. Government harassment of the group, which claims to want
   an Islamic form of democracy, has intensified, with hundreds of
   members arrested and dozens awaiting trial before military tribunals.

   Mr Mubarak's government is meanwhile pushing ahead with plans to
   "modernise" Egypt's 1971 constitution. It is true that the changes
   would abolish outdated verbiage describing Egypt as a socialist state.
   But they would also formally ban all parties based on religion, so, in
   theory, shutting out the Muslim Brotherhood for good. Judicial
   oversight of elections would be replaced by a government-appointed
   panel and special powers of arrest and eaves-dropping that the police
   now enjoy under 26-year-old emergency laws would be formally enshrined
   in the constitution. Small wonder that Egypt's secular and religious
   opposition, in a rare show of unity, have joined in condemning the
   reforms as a sham.

   The pattern of regression is similar elsewhere. After long debate,
   Jordan's parliament has approved a press law that allows journalists
   to be jailed for vaguely defined forms of slander. Similar laws have
   led to lengthy sentences for journalists in Yemen and Algeria as well
   as internet bloggers in Tunisia and Egypt. Last month, Saudi Arabia
   arrested ten intellectuals for signing a polite petition suggesting it
   was time for the kingdom to consider a transition to constitutional
   monarchy.

   Darker dictatorships, such as those in Syria and Libya, never offered
   much hope of change in the first place, and continue to silence
   dissent with gusto. But countries that seemed to offer brighter
   prospects have also disappointed. Bahrain, a small, relatively
   progressive island kingdom in the Gulf, had promised that last
   November's legislative elections would herald a new era of trust
   between the disgruntled Shia majority and the ruling family's Sunni
   allies. But electoral rules again diluted Shia votes; with opposition
   activists facing renewed harassment since the voting, unrest has again
   spread. People-power in Lebanon, the most politically open Arab
   country, did succeed in installing a reform-minded government. But
   subsequent turmoil, including last summer's war that Hizbullah sparked
   with Israel, has produced such severe political polarisation that many
   Lebanese fear the country is sliding away from the rule of law and
   back into the vicious tribalism of its 1975-90 civil war.

   Given the messy outcomes produced by more open politics in Iraq,
   Palestine and Lebanon, the region's stability-obsessed regimes have
   had reason to take pause. Yet they are not the only ones to have
   developed cold feet. Despite the fact that America's State Department,
   in its recently released annual report on human rights, contained
   harsh words about American allies such as Saudi Arabia and Jordan, the
   tone of America's rhetoric about democratisation has grown markedly
   milder of late. Worried more by the Iraqi quagmire, the perceived
   threat of Iran and evidence of increased support for Islamist parties
   that are assumed to be hostile to the West, American diplomacy appears
   to have dropped idealism in favour of realism. Instead of bullying its
   friends, America has quietly proffered rewards, including, for
   example, assistance in developing civilian nuclear energy for Egypt
   and Libya.


   More dissent in the ruling party and in the army does not mean the end
   is nigh

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

                    Can he trust his soldiers any more?


   THE political temperature in Zimbabwe may be rising again. Last week
   seven men, including serving and retired soldiers, appeared in court,
   accused of plotting a coup to overthrow President Robert Mugabe. This
   week, under South African stewardship, a delegation from Zimbabwe's
   ruling party met both factions of the opposition Movement for
   Democratic Change (MDC) in Pretoria, South Africa's capital. In March
   leaders of the 14-country Southern African Development Community had
   asked Thabo Mbeki, South Africa's president, to facilitate such
   discussions to prepare for elections in Zimbabwe next year. Does this
   mean Mr Mugabe is on his last legs?

   Not yet. But Mr Mugabe may be rattled by discord within the armed
   forces, albeit apparently at quite a low level. The alleged plotters
   say they were only trying to create a new political party. But
   discontent in the military rank and file, badly hurt by the economic
   meltdown, is rising.

   Though the top brass is a lot better off, the armed forces may at
   other levels be splitting along the same fault-line that runs through
   Mr Mugabe's ruling Zanu-PF party. Some Zimbabweans say that Emmerson
   Mnangagwa, a former speaker of Parliament and long-time security
   minister, and Solomon Mujuru, the vice-president's husband and a
   former army head, may be linked to the alleged plot, though this may
   just be speculation. Mr Mnangagwa strongly denies involvement.

   The opposition has laid out a road map towards the elections due next
   year. It wants to scrap laws curtailing freedom of the press and of
   assembly. It also wants new electoral rules, reform of the
   constitution and an end to state-sponsored violence and intimidation.
   And it wants the 3m or so Zimbabweans who have left the country to be
   allowed to vote. For its part, the ruling Zanu-PF wants sanctions
   lifted and Britain to help with land reform. This week the two sides
   apparently agreed to an agenda for discussion.

   Yet, at the same time, Mr Mugabe's government is pushing controversial
   laws through parliament. One allows for phone calls and e-mails to be
   monitored. Next month the ruling party is expected to table
   constitutional amendments that would tighten its grip on power. For
   instance, Parliament, rather than the Zimbabwean people in a direct
   vote, would pick a new president, were the incumbent to step down
   between elections. Another proposed change would boost parliamentary
   representation in rural areas, where Zanu-PF has its base, and give
   fewer seats to the towns, where the MDC predominates.

   Meanwhile, inflation is hovering around 4,500%, and eight Zimbabweans
   in ten do not have formal jobs. Some aid agencies say the government
   may fall within six months or so, as the economy collapses, but they
   have been saying so for some time. Though the formal economy is in
   dire straits, Zimbabweans have learnt to cope in other ways, mainly by
   relying on the black market and getting help from friends and family
   abroad. The UN's World Food Programme says that by next year 4.1m
   Zimbabweans may need food handouts, otherwise they may starve.

   "African economies, like old soldiers, do not die," says Arthur
   Mutambara, the leader of a breakaway faction of the MDC whose passport
   has just been confiscated. At least the grimness of the economy gives
   Zimbabwe's neighbours some levers: they can dangle promises of
   economic help to nudge negotiations along. But a small elite connected
   to Mr Mugabe and Zanu-PF has vested interests in the current system,
   where price controls and an artificial exchange rate offer juicy
   possibilities for making fortunes. It is not at all clear that they
   would risk a settlement that might see them booted out of power.


   Corruption is already at the heart of Nigeria's election campaign 

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters


   THE elections in Nigeria due in April are Africa's most important in a
   crowded electoral year. Much depends on their outcome: the country's
   nascent anti-corruption plan, the stability of the continent's most
   populous country, even a possible resolution of an insurgency in the
   Niger Delta region that threatens one of the West's most important
   sources of oil. So it made quite a stir last week when the
   government's anti-corruption watchdog launched a pre-emptive strike on
   the electoral process that could affect the course of the
   campaign--and even the result itself.

   The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has sent letters
   to all the political parties listing 130 of their candidates who the
   commission said would soon be charged with corruption. Those named
   included several gubernatorial and parliamentary candidates. Most
   strikingly, the list includes Atiku Abubakar, the vice-president
   (pictured above), one of the two leading opposition candidates running
   against the ruling party's nominee for the presidency. Though the
   EFCC's deputy head, Ibrahim Lamorde, stressed that it was not for him
   to tell the parties how they should act on this knowledge, the
   independent electoral commission has already advised that those
   candidates accused of corruption, including Mr Abubakar, should not be
   able to stand.

   The EFCC's intervention is unprecedented, but Mr Lamorde argues that
   the law gives it "a lot of latitude" to act in any way that it deems
   necessary to fulfil its mandate of stamping out corruption in Nigeria.
   But its action has also raised more suspicions that much of its work
   is in fact partisan, in favour of President Olusegun Obasanjo and his
   ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP). Mr Obasanjo, who tried and
   failed to change the constitution last year to stay in power for a
   third successive term, wants his successor to be Umaru Yar'Adua, a
   reclusive governor who won the nomination for the PDP in December and
   who is the younger brother of Mr Obasanjo's deputy during the
   president's time as a military ruler in the 1970s. In contrast, Mr
   Obasanjo seems to have been doing everything in his power to try and
   knock Mr Abubakar out of the race, using the EFCC as his main weapon.

   Last year the commission issued a lengthy report on Mr Abubakar's
   alleged misuse of $125m from a petroleum trust fund. He denies all the
   charges. A former customs boss, Mr Abubakar takes credit for swaying
   influential figures across the country to back Mr Obasanjo in the 2003
   elections but has subsequently fallen out badly with him. Mr Obasanjo
   tried to strip Mr Abubakar of the vice-presidency last year after he
   left the PDP for another party, the Action Congress, an opposition
   alliance which has absorbed a clutch of other PDP defectors fed up
   with Mr Obasanjo's authoritarian ways.

   Claiming the moral high ground after the commission's blacklist came
   out, the PDP immediately said that it would replace all 52 of its
   candidates on the list, whereas Mr Abubakar dismissed it as "a piece
   of cheap blackmail". Unfortunately, many will agree with him. Many
   politicians feel that Mr Obasanjo's apparently selective use of the
   commission to wage his party's electoral battles undermines the work
   of the Nuhu Ribadu, the commission's boss, who has done a lot to go
   after many of the country's indubitably corrupt politicians, including
   31 of Nigeria's 36 sitting governors. Even some in the ruling party
   wonder why Mr Obasanjo will not allow Mr Abubakar and his relatively
   weak party to campaign. "It just shows that Obasanjo has a morbid fear
   of Atiku Abubakar," says one senior PDP official.

   That fear could be justified. If Mr Abubakar, who still enjoys a
   strong following even in the PDP, were to win the presidential poll,
   it would be hard to imagine that Mr Obasanjo, stripped of his
   constitutional immunity, would be left unmolested. The ruling party
   may have to rig elections more seriously than it did the last time
   round to get Mr Yar'Adua elected. Muhammadu Buhari, a stern former
   military ruler who ran for president in 2003, is another opposition
   front-runner in this year's poll. He said this week that the PDP was
   already making headway in its race to rig the elections.


   What lies behind the latest bombings in Algeria's capital?


   ONE blast seems to have been aimed at Algeria's constitutional court
   but killed a busload of university students who happened to be passing
   by. The other destroyed the local office of the UN's High Commissioner
   for Refugees and damaged other UN offices across the street. Hospital
   sources reported 76 dead, though the government said 26.
   Responsibility was claimed on Islamist websites by "al-Qaeda in the
   Islamic Maghreb", as Algeria's main terrorist group now styles itself.
   Its declared aim was to strike a blow at "the Crusaders and their
   agents, the slaves of America and the sons of France".

   Following several years of relative calm, Algeria has suffered a spate
   of violence since the spring. This has usually been explained as a
   hangover from Algeria's particularly brutal civil war in the 1990s.
   But the nature of recent attacks reflects a broader global agenda
   promoted by the alliance, announced last year, between local Islamist
   terrorists and al-Qaeda. Nearly simultaneous multiple bombings, aimed
   at maximising terror and carrying a message of "resistance" to
   imagined enemies of Islam, have become a calling card of the terrorist
   group. Previous attacks in Algeria had been smaller strikes aimed at
   police stations and the like. Earlier this year the group tried to
   kill the prime minister.

   The seed for today's terrorism was probably planted in 1992, when
   Algeria's government annulled a second round of elections after
   Islamists had won the first. This led to one of the most spectacular
   outbreaks of violence in modern times, leaving some 200,000 Algerians
   dead. No target, even busloads of schoolchildren, was considered
   illegitimate. It stemmed from a perversion of the Muslim idea of
   takfir (excommunication), whereby al-Qaeda has declared several Arab
   governments, including the Egyptian and Saudi ones, to be apostates
   deserving death.

   Algeria's Armed Islamic Group (GIA) took the condemnation further,
   announcing that anyone not fighting against the government deserved
   the same fate. A splinter from the GIA, the Salafist Group for
   Preaching and Combat (GSPC), has since grown to greater prominence
   than the GIA. This newer group at first promised to avoid the GIA's
   habit of random violence. But in the past six months its violence has
   claimed more civilian lives, often dozens at a time. The latest
   bombings were the bloodiest yet. If the Salafist group was
   responsible, it has broken that promise.

   What makes this possible is the nature of the attack and the close
   links between the GSPC and al-Qaeda. Algeria's Islamists and Osama bin
   Laden collaborated in the 1990s. Their ties became formal last year,
   on the fifth anniversary of the September 11th attacks, when Ayman
   al-Zawahiri, al-Qaeda's deputy leader, named the GSPC as his group's
   North African affiliate. Since then, it has styled itself al-Qaeda in
   the Islamic Maghreb, matching the name of its affiliate in Iraq,
   al-Qaeda in Mesopotamia. Both titles avoid mentioning Algeria and
   Iraq, names of the modern, secular states created by Europeans. Such a
   designation seemed ambitious when the group was engaged in parochial
   fighting. But as attacks have become bigger and deadlier, the group is
   aiming to look more like an organisation in its parent's mould.

   Few expect Algeria to revert to the sustained violence of the civil
   war. An amnesty declared in 2002 has enabled thousands of former
   Islamist militants to return to ordinary life. High oil prices have
   helped resurrect what had been a nearly ruined economy, and in recent
   local elections moderate Islamists failed to make ground. Algerian
   officials say that, by choosing high-publicity targets of low
   strategic value, the terrorists display their own weakness. But they
   still generate terror.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=99034467?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=9095242
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   Refugees are returning to Baghdad, but not always for encouraging
   reasons

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                                     A magic bus for some


   IT WAS a stirring sight. A score of buses piled with luggage and
   decked with Iraqi flags set out from Damascus on November 27th,
   carrying hundreds of Iraqi refugees for the overnight journey to
   Baghdad. The Iraqi government, which paid for the convoy, says there
   will be many more. Improved security in the capital brought about by
   the "surge" of American troops, it claims, has prompted a mass
   homecoming of Iraqis who fled the sectarian death-squads that once
   terrorised the city.

   According to the Iraqi Red Crescent, a sister body of the
   International Red Cross, some 25,000 Iraqis returned from Syria alone
   between mid-September and the end of last month. Others say the number
   is closer to 60,000. But this is only a fraction of the more than 2m
   Iraqis estimated to have fled abroad in the past four years. Moreover,
   it is unclear whether everyone is returning for the best of reasons.

   By virtually every account, Baghdad is much safer than it was a few
   months ago. Estimates of civilian casualties are incomplete, but one
   independent tally suggests that the national death toll has dropped by
   over 50% since the summer, and the capital has seen some of the most
   dramatic improvements. Baghdadis who a few months ago were hunkered
   down in their houses say that they are now travelling across town to
   work and dining out at night. Women have abandoned the heavy robes
   urged on them by religiously zealous militias for a simple headscarf
   and jeans. Young men are taking down the makeshift barricades that
   used to seal off streets from car-bombers or raiders.

   But this is not necessarily the reason why Iraqis are returning.
   Neighbours such as Syria, which originally welcomed Iraqis, have found
   themselves overwhelmed and are now starting to cut off services. Few
   of the refugees have been able to find enough work to support
   themselves in exile. Some have simply run out of money.

   Most of the host countries seem unwilling to risk the international
   opprobrium that would accompany rounding up Iraqis and sending them
   back to a war zone. Instead, they find other ways to make it
   unpleasant to stay. According to a report released by Human Rights
   Watch, a lobby group, desperate Iraqis who have fled from Syria to its
   more prosperous neighbour, Lebanon, are often caught by the
   authorities and offered a stark choice: opt for home "voluntarily" or
   rot in prison indefinitely. Iraqis in Egypt who want to renew valid
   visas claim they are met by sneering officials who tell them they are
   not wanted any more and demand extortionate fees to process their
   papers.

   Moreover, the return of the refugees yields its own set of problems.
   Many will find their homes are now occupied by others. American
   military officers complain that the Iraqi government is not prepared
   for this looming crisis. The Red Crescent fears the refugees who
   return will simply join the ranks of the 2m-plus internally displaced
   Iraqis it estimates are scattered across the country.

   Still, the return of the refugees fits into a general weariness with
   sectarian hatred. One member of the Mahdi Army, who spent the last
   year securing his neighbourhood from Sunni insurgents by chasing away
   any Sunni who might sympathise with them, now says he is contacting
   his former neighbours and offering them pledges of safety if they
   return. This fragile goodwill may dissipate, though, if the government
   does not apply itself to finding homes for its displaced citizens.


   Was there a deal between Turkey and America?

   AS IF Iraq did not have enough problems of its own. On December 16th
   Turkish aircraft bombed what they said were Kurdish rebel positions
   deep inside northern Iraq. It was one of the biggest cross-border air
   strikes in recent years and was followed by an incursion by about 300
   Turkish troops. They were said to be lightly armed, and advanced only
   3km (1.9 miles) into Iraq. But the two actions mark a big escalation
   of the traditional hostilities.

   The Turks' targets were Kurdish fighters of the Kurdistan Workers'
   Party (PKK), who have used bases inside the semi-autonomous Kurdish
   enclave in northern Iraq to launch raids into Turkey. Although Iraq's
   American occupiers have worked hard in recent months to prevent such a
   raid, Turkey's most senior general said that the Americans had not
   only agreed to the air strikes but had also provided the necessary
   intelligence.

   If this is true, it may be the result of a delicate balancing act. The
   Kurdish enclave in the north is the most successful part of
   post-Saddam Iraq. The Americans do not want it to be destabilised. But
   they also want to salvage relations with Turkey, a vital NATO ally
   whose people have become strongly anti-American since America invaded
   Iraq in 2003.

   Many Iraqi Kurds do not believe Turkey's claim that it is motivated
   only by the raids of PKK fighters. They fear that Turkey's real aim is
   to prevent the Kurdish areas of Iraq from gaining full independence,
   which would stoke up an appetite for secession among Turkey's own
   Kurdish population. The head of Iraq's Kurdish regional government
   refused to meet the visiting American secretary of state, Condoleezza
   Rice, as "a sign of protest" against American acceptance of the
   Turkish raids.

   It may well be that America and Turkey have struck a deal. In exchange
   for American support for the limited Turkish raids, and a promise to
   order the Iraqi Kurds to take action against the PKK, Turkey's prime
   minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is thought to have made his own
   promises to George Bush. These include recognising the Kurds' regional
   government in Iraq and introducing a more liberal amnesty for PKK
   fighters.

   A previous amnesty that pardoned only those who ratted on their
   comrades failed. Now the government may pardon all PKK fighters who
   have not been involved in violence. After more than two decades of war
   against the rebels, Turkey knows that military measures alone cannot
   fix its Kurdish problem.


   A prominent critic of President Robert Mugabe resigns


   THE Archbishop of Bulawayo, Pius Ncube, has joined the crowded ranks
   of those felled for speaking out against Zimbabwe's president, Robert
   Mugabe. In July, the state-run media aired photographs that they said
   showed the archbishop in a compromising position with a married
   secretary of his parish.

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

                                           Will his voice still be heard?

   His supporters said it was a conspiracy to discredit him; Zimbabwe's
   Catholic church also stood by him. For many years he has criticised Mr
   Mugabe's regime in the strongest possible terms. But this week, facing
   adultery charges in court, he stepped down as archbishop of Zimbabwe's
   second largest city, denouncing the "crude machinations of a wicked
   regime".

   The 60-year-old explained his decision as a move to protect his fellow
   bishops and the Catholic church. The government said his resignation
   was an admission of guilt. Some people believe he was, indeed, the
   victim of a cleverly-sprung government honey-trap.

   Earlier this year, after opposition leaders had been arrested and
   beaten up, he called for street protests and, later, for foreign
   intervention to oust Mr Mugabe. He also said he was praying for the
   president's death. Mr Mugabe, himself brought up as a Catholic, told
   clergy who spoke out against him that they were on a "dangerous path".

   Archbishop Ncube, who took up his post in Bulawayo in 1997, is an
   Ndebele whose homeland, in western Zimbabwe, was subject to the
   government's brutal repression in the 1980s, leaving many thousands of
   people dead. He said he would remain a Catholic bishop and would not
   be silenced. But it is unclear whether he will retain his moral
   authority.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   Mahmoud Ahmadinejad thinks Iran is home free


   AS FAR as George Bush is concerned, "Iran was dangerous, Iran is
   dangerous and Iran will be dangerous" if it gets sufficient knowledge
   to build a nuclear bomb. But his words this week were barely audible
   above the clamour detonated by a new National Intelligence Estimate
   (NIE), the collective judgement of all 16 of America's intelligence
   agencies, that Iran had halted its nuclear weapons programme in the
   autumn of 2003. To Iran's irrepressible president, Mahmoud
   Ahmadinejad, the report was a "great victory"--an own thumb-in-the-eye
   for the Great Satan.

   At the very least, the spooks' reassessment of Iran's ongoing nuclear
   work seems likely to put a brake on already slow diplomatic efforts
   through the United Nations Security Council to pressure Iran into
   suspending its enrichment of uranium and its efforts to produce
   plutonium. Although a new resolution promising stiffer sanctions on
   Iran may still be circulated soon, both Russia and China say that the
   new NIE version of events means at a minimum a bit of a rethink.

   Yet it's a funny thing. Although the new judgement on Iran's weapons
   work contradicts a 2005 NIE view that Iran was tinkering on
   regardless, the intelligence folk have not changed their prediction
   that Iran could have a nuclear weapon by around 2015. So does Iran
   have such military ambitions? And if so, why the presumed four-year
   pause?

   When intelligence types talk of Iran's weapons programme, what they
   mean is work to design a nuclear warhead, master the mechanics to make
   it go bang and covertly produce the highly-enriched uranium or
   plutonium for its explosive core. In 2002 much of Iran's
   hitherto-secret uranium work, including its centrifuge-enrichment
   plant at Natanz, was exposed by an opposition group. Iran then came
   under mounting pressure to suspend such work and let in inspectors
   from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). The intense
   scrutiny, the intelligence analysts think, caused Iran to halt its
   other nefarious activities too.

   Yet, as a leaked speech by a senior Iranian nuclear official later
   made clear, Iran was not abandoning enrichment, only ducking and
   weaving to get the world off its back. Uranium and plutonium work, it
   insists, are legal under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty--for
   peaceful purposes. The enrichment go-slow ended abruptly in 2006,
   however, with the election of Mr Ahmadinejad. Iran now has 3,000
   centrifuge machines up and running at Natanz.

   Does that matter if all the other work has stopped? Producing enough
   plutonium or highly enriched uranium (power reactors use the
   low-enriched sort, but this can be enriched to weapons grade by
   running it through the centrifuges a few more times) is the chief
   obstacle to building a bomb. Halting the obviously illegal work, while
   pressing ahead with enrichment in plain sight would still leave Iran
   with a weapons option, argued George Perkovich of the Carnegie
   Endowment for International Peace, a Washington think-tank, back in
   2005. The new NIE assessment comes to a similar conclusion.

   Iran claims never to have had any intent to build weapons. The NIE
   disagrees. America is even more firmly convinced on the evidence it
   has obtained--some of it quite recently--that until 2003 Iran's
   government was trying to build a nuclear weapon. It was "probably
   worse than we thought", says Stephen Hadley, Mr Bush's national
   security adviser.

   It always was implausible that a country without a single working
   nuclear-power reactor would spend so heavily on, and be so secretive
   about, uranium enrichment. The IAEA still wants to know more about
   unexplained traces of highly enriched uranium found by inspectors and
   a document Iran had for years, but claims never to have made use of,
   showing how to shape uranium metal into hemispheres, a technique
   useful only for weapons. Inspectors also want Iran to account for
   drawings dated 2003 from a laptop provided to America by a defector
   the following year that show design work on a missile cone that could
   accommodate a nuclear warhead. Iran dismisses such evidence as
   "baseless".

   The latest NIE assessment expresses "moderate confidence" that Iran's
   weapons pause continues. Israel's defence minister, Ehud Barak, this
   week begged to differ. He acknowledged that the odds on an eventual
   American military strike against Iran's nuclear facilities have
   lengthened, but said Israel would not lower its guard "because of an
   intelligence report from the other side of the world, even if it is
   from our greatest friend." Intriguingly, while the director-general of
   the IAEA, Mohamed ElBaradei, expressed himself pleased with the NIE
   reassessment, the New York Times quoted a senior official close to the
   agency as expressing more scepticism about what Iran is really up to.

   So where does diplomacy go from here? The NIE suggests that the
   weapons pause may indicate more of a cost-benefit approach to Iran's
   nuclear ambitions, and that some cleverer combination of scrutiny and
   pressure, combined with juicier offers to take account of Iran's
   security, prestige and other goals might prompt its regime to steer
   clear of further weapons work--though it could reverse course at any
   time. Yet that has been the basic diplomatic strategy all along: get
   Iran to halt enrichment and negotiate inducements, including
   co-operation on other advanced, but less dangerous, nuclear
   technologies, to make the suspension permanent. Mr Ahmadinejad firmly
   rules this out. Ironically, this week's NIE will make it harder to
   muster the diplomatic wherewithal to press him to change his merry
   tune.


   A chance of a proper peace any time soon looks slim


   AN ATTEMPT at national reconciliation finally sputtered into life this
   week in Somalia's battered capital, Mogadishu. Insecurity had delayed
   proceedings several times before. The place is as dangerous as ever,
   but the transitional government sounds more determined. Somalia's
   internationally recognised but hitherto ineffective president,
   Abdullahi Yusuf, declared that "not even a nuclear bomb" would
   distract Somalia's tribal elders from their task of finding a way
   forward. But few people are betting on success.

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                                Come back tomorrow, maybe

   Indeed, after opening speeches on July 15th, work was promptly
   adjourned; the organisers said they needed to wait for more
   participants. But mortars landing around the bullet-riddled garage
   serving as a conference hall did not help. An insurgency led by the
   Shabab ("young men"), a hardened jihadist remnant of the militias
   loyal to the Islamic Courts Union that briefly ran most of Somalia
   until it was overthrown by an Ethiopian-led force earlier this year,
   says it will kill anyone who takes part. Somalia's authorities, backed
   by Ethiopian troops, have sealed off large parts of the city.

   Tribal elders have chattered their way through dozens of
   reconciliation meetings since Somalia's central government collapsed
   in 1991. This time there may be a slightly better chance of groping
   towards a peace deal leading to elections proposed for 2009,
   especially if the elders can agree on some relatively simple issues,
   such as policing, taxation and schools, among other things.

   The Shabab know their cause will be in jeopardy if they cannot scotch
   this latest attempt at reconciliation. Al-Qaeda, which is devoting a
   lot of rhetoric and resources to turning the Horn of Africa into a new
   battleground, is equally keen to prevent it from getting anywhere.
   Much will depend on whether Mr Yusuf and his prime minister, Mohammed
   Ghedi, can be persuaded to invite moderate Islamists and elders from
   the Hawiye clan, which predominates in Mogadishu and has been broadly
   hostile to the government.

   In its confusion and scope, there are similarities between what is
   being tried in Somalia and the setting up of the loya jirga ("grand
   assembly") to draft a new constitution in late 2003 in Afghanistan.
   The difference is that rich and powerful countries have promised
   virtually nothing towards rescuing Somalia--and Mogadishu is far more
   dangerous than Afghanistan's capital, Kabul, was three years ago,
   particularly for foreigners. Moreover, elsewhere in north-east Africa
   the mayhem in the Sudanese region of Darfur has grabbed far more
   attention in international forums.

   The African Union, too, has failed to address Somalia effectively.
   Only Uganda has so far sent peacekeepers, while other African
   countries make increasingly feeble excuses for their refusal to help
   out. Diplomats whose governments have been paying for Somalia's
   reconciliation conference are unlikely to attend, for fear of being
   blown up or shot.

   Meanwhile, many Somalis are dying of diseases worsened by malnutrition
   and drowning in overloaded smugglers' boats in large numbers as they
   seek a better life elsewhere. The economy is still a wreck. In recent
   weeks Somali businessmen have been flying back to the safety of
   Nairobi, the capital of neighbouring Kenya, along with their money.
   Mogadishu's big Bakara market has been closed for days; when it is
   open, grenades and gunfire take the fun out of shopping. And as the
   reconciliation conference fails to take off in earnest, the danger
   grows that Mogadishu will soon slide back into anarchy.


                                                            Peter Schrank

                               Peter Schrank

   The last person to leave may not have any lights to turn out


   IT IS hard to imagine that things could get any worse in Zimbabwe.
   But, sure enough, day by day, they do. Since the opposition, NGOs and
   church groups organised a protest rally that was brutally crushed in
   March, the police and militias have been intimidating, arresting and
   beating up political opponents, journalists, lawyers and ordinary
   people alike. The government has even warned the Catholic bishops,
   once considered inviolate, to shut up or suffer the same fate.
   Meanwhile the inflation rate has passed 2,200%; last week the national
   power company announced that it would ration electricity in cities,
   possibly to a meagre four hours a day, just as the southern
   hemisphere's winter is starting to bite.

   Power cuts are already frequent, but the latest blackouts mark a new
   low. Residents of Harare, the capital, have been rushing to get
   firewood and paraffin, though a domestic worker's monthly wage can buy
   only five litres (1.3 American gallons) of paraffin or two litres of
   cooking oil. Many companies, already operating at about 40% of
   capacity, say the cuts will force them to reduce their working hours
   even more. "The whole thing is a nightmare," says Lovemore Mandebvu,
   who runs a small furniture-making factory in Harare. "We don't know
   when we will have power and when it goes. This is affecting our
   output. Then at home water runs out when you are bathing, and the
   electricity goes while you are cooking." Hospitals must use gas
   stoves, coal-fired boilers, fuel generators, solar power and candles.

   Basic staples like maize are becoming harder to buy. The official rate
   for the Zimbabwe dollar is 250 to the American one, but the street
   value is now closer to 32,000. Many Zimbabweans survive only thanks to
   the 3m or so friends and relatives who have emigrated. Every day
   desperate Zimbabweans cross the Limpopo river, braving crocodiles and
   occasionally drowning, to try their luck in neighbouring South Africa.
   Trapped into illegality there, many are exploited and abused.

   Those who stay face the increasingly arbitrary power of the police and
   militias. Since the crackdown in March, there have been raids on
   Harare districts such as Highfield and Glenview, known opposition
   strongholds, where random beatings and arrests have become common.
   President Robert Mugabe's government claims that the opposition
   Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) is responsible for the violence
   and is behind a wave of bombings. The MDC says the bombs are planted
   by the police to justify repression. Last week lawyers protested
   against the arrest of two colleagues and the routine defiance of court
   orders by the police. A march was dispersed and several lawyers
   assaulted.

   The latest efforts of Zimbabwe's neighbours to improve things are
   still going nowhere. After the violence in March, the Southern African
   Development Community, a regional club of 14 countries, mandated South
   Africa's president, Thabo Mbeki, to encourage negotiations between Mr
   Mugabe and his opponents. But the International Crisis Group, a
   Brussels-based think-tank, says that Zimbabwe's ruler has shown no
   willingness to co-operate with the regional initiative to prepare the
   ground for presidential and parliamentary elections due next year,
   when Mr Mugabe looks likely to run again. At present, there is little
   chance the elections will be fair.

   But some of Zimbabwe's neighbours are sounding exasperated. Last week
   the Pan-African Parliament, a talking-shop with a secretariat in South
   Africa, said it would send a mission to investigate human-rights
   abuses. Mozambique's energy company, a big supplier of Zimbabwe's
   electricity, may switch off power unless it gets paid. And South
   Africa's government, long in denial about the crisis on its doorstep,
   has just granted political asylum to Roy Bennett, the MDC treasurer
   who fled Zimbabwe to avoid another arrest. It turned down his
   application last year.

   Still, this rare build-up of pressure was released last week when, to
   the dismay of the United States, the European Union and many others,
   Zimbabwe's minister of environment and tourism, Francis Nhema, was
   elected to chair the UN Commission on Sustainable Development, where
   he will preside over discussions on land and rural development.
   Astonishingly, the UN's African members, whose turn it was to hold the
   rotating post, could think of no better candidate than one from a
   country whose agriculture has been largely destroyed by its
   government's catastrophic policies. Like many other Zimbabwean
   bigwigs, Mr Nhema himself pocketed a farm that was confiscated a few
   years ago--and has already let it lapse into ruin.


   The devil in the nuclear detail


   AFTER 15 years of trying, the effort to prise North Korea out of the
   bomb-making business has just got encouragingly technical. A team of
   experts, led by America, started work on November 5th to disable three
   of North Korea's nuclear facilities at Yongbyon: the reactor, the
   nearby plant that fabricates natural uranium into fuel for the reactor
   core and the chemical reprocessing plant where bomb-usable plutonium
   is separated from the spent fuel-rods. The work should be finished by
   year's end, when North Korea is also supposed to have made a clean
   breast of other nefarious nuclear activities. Then talks among the six
   countries involved--including South Korea, Japan, China and
   Russia--can turn to dismantling Yongbyon, and to North Korea's
   promised disarmament.

   But will North Korea really give up the estimated 50kg (110lbs) of
   separated plutonium (enough for at least 6-8 bombs) it is thought to
   have squirrelled away? By getting down, literally, to nuts and bolts
   at Yongbyon, the six-party process has got a crucial step further
   towards that disarmament goal than previous efforts. Under a 1994 deal
   with the Clinton administration, North Korea agreed merely to freeze
   operations at Yongbyon, while America, South Korea and Japan laboured
   to build two Western-designed, less proliferation-prone reactors as a
   huge bribe. The deal fell apart in 2002, when America confronted North
   Korea with evidence of its cheating: a parallel effort to produce
   enriched uranium, another possible bomb ingredient.

   At six-party talks in February, North Korea accepted the equivalent of
   1m tonnes of heavy fuel-oil (some of it in other forms of energy
   assistance) for disabling Yongbyon. Once disabled, says America's
   chief negotiator, it would take North Korea at least a year to get the
   plutonium-producing reactor up and running again.

   Of course, with the nuclear stash he already has, North Korea's Kim
   Jong Il might not be fussed at such a delay. And much could go wrong
   from here. One difficulty lies in the six-party complexities. But
   other problems already loom.

   It was a badly-behaving North Korea--in October 2006 it conducted a
   provocative bomb test--that persuaded the other five to back tough
   sanctions, helping the February deal to fruition. Now nuclear progress
   brings its own worries.

   South Korea is straining to push through economic and other deals with
   North Korea, fearing that a speedy rapprochement between prickly Mr
   Kim and America will reduce its own leverage over the North. America
   worries that such generosity could weaken Mr Kim's incentive to stay
   on the nuclear straight and narrow. Japan, meanwhile, is anxious that
   America, in pursuit of nuclear progress, will remove North Korea from
   its terrorism blacklist before Mr Kim has come up with information
   Japan wants about its citizens abducted to North Korea in the past. It
   refuses to stump up towards energy aid, but may contribute to the
   disabling costs.

   North Korea, though, still has to produce its list of weapons
   programmes (to include any uranium dabbling). A first draft is
   expected shortly. George Bush has said it must also include nuclear
   assistance Mr Kim has given to others. Some nuclear material was
   discovered in Libya several years ago of possible North Korean origin.
   And America and Israel reportedly think the list should also include
   Syria. An Israeli air raid in September is thought to have targeted a
   nuclear site--possibly a building to house a reactor--being built with
   North Korean assistance. Syria has bought missiles from North Korea,
   but both deny nuclear co-operation.

   There might be more. Before talk of a Syrian connection, an article in
   the March issue of Arms Control Today by Siegfried Hecker and William
   Liou listed the many ways North Korea's nuclear expertise could be of
   use to Iran, which also has suspect nuclear ambitions. Mr Kim
   co-operates closely with Iran on missile development, and most
   recently supplied it with nuclear-capable missiles able to fly 2,500km
   (1,150 miles). He has also helped it build secretive underground
   tunnels.

   A North Korean list devoid of all outside nuclear connections would be
   one damaging development; full disclosure could be another sort of
   bombshell.


   The politicians are still fighting the war of independence, 36 years
   on

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                   Nizami's youth comes back to haunt him


   THE army-backed interim government running Bangladesh since January
   has been struggling to bring corrupt politicians and businessmen to
   trial. Now it faces mounting pressure also to prosecute those involved
   in "war crimes" during the country's war of independence in 1971. In
   recent weeks, the big political parties--in a rare display of
   unity--have jointly demanded that the government ban "war criminals"
   from contesting the parliamentary election due late next year.

   In effect, this would transform the government's "minus-two"
   strategy--the removal from politics of Sheikh Hasina Wajed and Khaleda
   Zia, leaders of the two biggest political parties--into "minus three".
   Talk of war-crimes trials leads inexorably to one person, Motiur
   Rahman Nizami, leader of the third-largest party, Jamaat-e-Islami.
   Shahrier Kabir, the head of the Nirmul Committee, a group campaigning
   for the trial of the 1971 war criminals, says he has "no doubt" that
   the case against Mr Nizami and his associates would stand up in a
   court of law, and wants the government to set up a tribunal.

   Bangladesh became independent in December 1971, after a nine-month war
   that pitted Bengali-dominated East Pakistan against West Pakistan. The
   West's army, with its appeal to Islamic unity, had the support of many
   of East Pakistan's fundamentalist parties. The most extreme of these
   was the Jamaat-e-Islami, whose student wing became the main source of
   a pro-army paramilitary body called Al Badr, which was led by Mr
   Nizami. Its members are alleged, among other atrocities, to have
   abducted and murdered dozens of senior journalists and academics.

   Frequent calls for war-crimes trials have been ignored. This time,
   however, the unelected government's hand may be forced by the new
   unity among the big parties, and by support for the demands among
   parts of the army. The army may want only to clip Jamaat's wings and
   cleanse it of the taint of 1971. Many civilians, however, are
   motivated by distrust of religion-based politics.

   Time is running out. Many witnesses, and many of the accused, have
   died. The head of the interim administration, Fakhruddin Ahmed, has
   said that the government would welcome prosecutions initiated by
   private citizens. But citizens' groups insist that the state must act
   as prosecutor in crimes of such magnitude.

   So far, the interim government has not faced a serious political
   challenge. But election boycotts are a common tactic in Bangladesh,
   and could be used to put pressure on it--provided, of course, that its
   military backers decide to go ahead with the polls. Trials relating to
   crimes committed so long ago may seem irrelevant in a country facing
   so many immediate disasters. It is still reeling from Cyclone Sidr and
   devastating floods. But for those demanding trials, Bangladesh's very
   identity is at stake. Many agreed with Zafar Sobhan, a political
   commentator, when he wrote recently that the immunity enjoyed by
   Jamaat since 1971 is the country's "original sin", polluting the body
   politic far worse even than financial corruption. Is there another
   country, he asked, where those, like Jamaat, "who opposed the birth of
   a country or those who collaborated with its enemies" have been
   rehabilitated?


   A new government in the Marshall Islands may spell trouble for America
   
   FIFTY years have passed since America ended nuclear testing in the
   Marshall Islands. But its 52,500 people are still wrestling with the
   legacy. On January 7th they ditched the pro-American administration
   led by Kessai Note and elected instead a government backed by
   disgruntled chiefs and senators from the nuclear-affected atolls. The
   new leaders are unhappy with their nation's "Compact of Free
   Association" (CFA) with the United States. They want to press the
   claims of nuclear victims on the islands of Bikini, Rongelap, Utrik
   and Enewetak. They are also considering opening diplomatic relations
   with China.

   America has reason to worry. It retains important strategic interests
   on Kwajalein, the country's largest atoll. Test missiles fired from
   California as part of the "Star Wars II" missile-defence programme
   regularly plunge spectacularly onto the lagoon floor, to be retrieved
   for scientific analysis. When the CFA was renegotiated in 2003,
   America insisted on a separate agreement giving it continued access to
   its $4 billion missile-defence test site on Kwajalein until at least
   2066. For this, it agreed to pay $15m a year, rising to $18m after
   2014. It rejected pleas from local landowners for direct negotiations,
   insisting on talks only with Mr Note's government. The new compact is
   worth about $3.5 billion over its 20 years, and gives Marshall
   Islanders rights to work and live in America.

   The Kwajalein chiefs responded by forming their own political party,
   the Aelon Kein Ad (AKA), which this week defeated Mr Note's party.
   After a chaotic election, which the AKA claims was marked by severe
   irregularities, it gained 18 seats in the 33-member Nitijela
   (parliament), just enough to secure the presidency.

   The new president, Litokwa Tomeing, has said his country's links with
   Taiwan are not paying off and that he wants to switch diplomatic
   recognition to China. If he does--and Taiwan is lobbying hard and
   expensively to dissuade him--that may further unsettle America. When
   Kiribati, another country of sun-baked atolls and lagoons just to the
   south, had links with Beijing, it allowed the Chinese to build a
   satellite-tracking station on the island of Tarawa. When it switched
   to Taipei in 2003, the station was hastily removed, to American
   relief. America would be unlikely to tolerate a similar facility in a
   Chinese-allied Marshall Islands.

   America paid $270m in compensation to nuclear victims under the first
   phase of the CFA (1986-2001), insisting that was a full and final
   arrangement. The new government claims this was far too little to
   compensate for the ill-health, birth defects and deaths suffered, or
   to cover the costs of cleaning up the damaged islands. The 67 tests
   conducted in the northern Marshalls between 1946 and 1958 released
   radioactive iodine said to be 150 times worse than the contamination
   from the nuclear disaster at Chernobyl in 1986. The new foreign
   minister claims that rising temperatures have caused irradiated
   bunkers once thought safe to leak, and that impoverished islanders are
   exporting toxic metals from their poisoned atolls.

   The AKA-dominated government's position is nevertheless precarious.
   Unless it can force big concessions from the Americans, several
   wavering senators could well switch sides. But America may find it in
   its interests to show some flexibility. It might be much costlier to
   stand firm than to bend a little to the prevailing political winds.


   Pakistan's madrassas may be less of a problem than its mainstream
   schools


   THE "battle" for Pakistani minds is sometimes not a figurative one. A
   bloody clash erupted last month when security forces prevented
   pro-Taliban militants from recruiting pupils for jihad at a private
   secondary school in North-West Frontier Province (NWFP). General
   Pervez Musharraf, Pakistan's president, casts such incidents as part
   of a struggle between his "enlightened moderation" and obscurantist
   militants. But critics say General Musharraf is failing in one
   important arena. His five-year old plan to reform Pakistan's madrassas
   is "in shambles", according to a report last week by the International
   Crisis Group, a research and policy outfit.

   Pakistan's real educational battlefield, however, is less in its
   madrassas than in its rotten mainstream schools and universities. In
   the absence of a decent education, points out Javed Ashraf Qazi, the
   education minister, "illiterate masses become ready recruits for all
   sorts of unhealthy activities." Perhaps recognising this, America has
   not wasted a dime on madrassa reform. But it has pledged $256m for
   mainstream education between 2002 and 2007.

   Officially, 53% of Pakistanis are literate. Others say the figure is
   nearer 30%. Literacy, often defined as no more than the ability to
   write one's name, is as low as 3% among women in some rural areas.
   Pakistan has a rapidly ballooning population of 160m with over 85m
   people below the age of 19. The education system, left to atrophy for
   30 years, is crippled by every possible ill: crumbling classrooms,
   poor teaching materials, untrained and truant teachers and endemic
   corruption.

   It is not all grim. The government is taking education more seriously
   and pouring in more resources. In the province of Punjab, which has a
   population of 83.7m, the World Bank has ploughed $850m into
   educational reform. Over the past three years more than 1m children
   have been enrolled in Punjabi schools for the first time. The
   provincial government has introduced free textbooks, a $4 monthly
   stipend for girls, a teacher-training scheme and has cancelled token
   school fees. Like NWFP, Punjab has purged its textbooks of much
   pro-jihad and anti-Indian propaganda.

   But the good news ends there. Poorer provinces have been unable to
   cash in. Baluchistan, blighted by a low-level separatist insurgency,
   has been able to increase spending by only 20-30%. Across Pakistan as
   a whole, only 52% of primary-school-age pupils attend school. Of
   those, nearly one-third will drop out. Only 22% of girls above the age
   of ten complete primary schooling, compared with 47% of boys.

   Some 3,500 schools do not have a building; of those that do, 4,000 are
   classed as "dangerous"; 29,000 schools have no electricity; 14,000
   have no drinking water; 22,000 do not have a toilet; 4,000 consist of
   a single classroom; and fewer than 100 secondary schools have science
   labs. The quality of education is still poor, and the government is
   far off its target of providing universal primary education by 2015.

   The private sector, which accounts for 30% of primary and secondary
   education, fares little better. Private schools are mostly
   over-subscribed, poorly paid and staffed by badly trained teachers.
   Many "English-medium" schools, offering to bridge the social divide
   between the anglophone elite and the "masses", are a swindle. Pupils
   are instructed mainly in Urdu. Nevertheless, educationalists are
   concerned that the divide between schools is reinforcing the social
   chasm.

   To be fair, the government is seeking to combat these woes. It has
   pledged to boost spending on education from 2.5% of GDP to 4%. But
   similar promises were made last year. Already some 40% of the
   education budget is returned to the exchequer because of a lack of
   "capacity", or the failings of a cumbersome bureaucracy.

   Pakistan's higher education has received the most obvious boost of
   energy and money. A Higher Education Commission was created in 2002
   and is run by a distinguished hyperactive organic chemist,
   Atta-ur-Rahman. With an annual budget of $449m, Mr Rahman has sent
   hundreds of students abroad on scholarships, embarked on a
   university-building spree, published lists in newspapers of dubious
   degree-givers, hunted down plagiarists and introduced
   performance-related incentives to improve teaching quality and
   research. Respected academics, such as Abdul Hameed Nayyar, believe
   that the haste of some of the reforms has "actually degraded higher
   education". Even if that is unfair, the present flurry of educational
   enthusiasm may not make a lasting difference. Its chances remain
   hostage to Pakistan's chronic political instability.


   A change in technique for the world's busiest executioners?

   CHINA'S leaders love talking about all the indicators that show China
   leading the world. Whether it is growth rates, production figures or
   trade volumes, officials relish any chance to unleash a barrage of
   dazzling statistics. They are less gung-ho about another category
   where China leaves the world trailing: use of the death penalty.
   Indeed, the number of Chinese criminal executions remains a state
   secret.

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                                    The old-fashioned way

   Foreign human-rights groups make valiant efforts to scour local press
   reports and tally the sums, but reckon they hear about only a fraction
   of the cases. In 2006 Amnesty International, a human-rights lobbying
   group, counted 2,790 people sentenced to death in China and 1,010
   executed. Other groups put annual executions at 7,500 or more. Even
   per head, using low estimates, China probably outstrips every country
   but Singapore. It also has a greater number of capital offences than
   anywhere else: more than 60. These include murder and other violent
   crimes, but also smuggling, drug trafficking and many "economic
   crimes" such as bribe-taking, embezzlement and even tax evasion.

   This month it was revealed that China is planning a big change. The
   traditional method of execution--a single bullet to the back of the
   convict's head--is to be replaced by a lethal injection. Jiang
   Xingchang, of the Supreme People's Court, told the press this is
   because injections are considered "more humane". The option was first
   authorised experimentally in China in 1997 and has since been used in
   many cities, including Kunming, Wuhan, Chengdu and Shanghai. Mr Jiang
   did not provide a timetable for an end to death by gunshot, but said
   the newer method has been favourably received by "all quarters of
   society, including those sentenced to death and their families."

   Some foreign critics disapprove. A statement from Amnesty said China's
   expanded use of lethal injections "flies in the face" of international
   trends away from capital punishment--which this year have seen even
   dictatorial Uzbekistan abandon the death penalty. The statement also
   cited the well-documented flaws in China's shoddy legal system and
   argued that a switch to lethal injection would do nothing to solve
   such problems as the arbitrary enforcement of the law or the execution
   of innocents. Recent years have seen a handful of cases in which
   Chinese defendants who had been sentenced to death, or even executed,
   were later found innocent. Chinese and foreign legal experts agree
   that an important cause of this, which China could do much more to
   eradicate, is the common police practice of extracting confessions
   through torture.

   There is also cause to challenge claims that lethal injections are
   more humane. This week America's Supreme Court began hearing a case,
   brought by two condemned inmates in Kentucky, alleging that injections
   can cause agonising pain, and thereby violate a constitutional bar on
   "cruel and unusual" punishment.

   In any event, China's interest in treating criminals more humanely has
   limits. This month the chief justice, Xiao Yang, said China might one
   day like to abolish capital punishment altogether. But that day would
   not dawn soon, because Chinese people believe strongly in the notion
   of an "eye for an eye and a life for a life". Not to mention tax
   evasion, of course.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e09as761;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world756;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=54135762?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=9249711
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world756;ord=1;num=1?

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   Organised by text messages and internet chats, China's middle classes
   are daring to protest, and giving the government a fright


   INFORMATION technology in China is once again making political waves.
   In the tropical seaport of Xiamen citizens still talk excitedly about
   how an anonymous text message on their mobile phones last month
   prompted them to join one of the biggest middle-class protests of
   recent years. And in Beijing politicians are scrambling to calm an
   uproar fuelled by an online petition against slave labour in brick
   kilns.

   Chinese officials have had reason to worry before about the rallying
   power of the internet and mobile phones. Two years ago they helped
   activists organise protests against Japan in several Chinese cities.
   But the government, at least initially, sympathised with those
   protests. By contrast the demonstrations in Xiamen were directed at
   officialdom, and the slave-labour scandal embarrasses the government.
   It involves allegations that officials ignored kiln-owners' use of
   abducted boys to perform dangerous work. This has triggered a heated
   online debate about the political flaws that allowed such horrors to
   happen.

   The text message in Xiamen, circulated in late May, called for a rally
   outside the city government's headquarters on June 1st to protest
   against plans to build a huge chemical factory on a site, pictured
   above, in the suburbs. It compared building the $1.4 billion plant for
   making paraxylene, used in polyester, to dropping an "atomic bomb" on
   Xiamen. It warned readers that the factory could cause leukaemia and
   birth deformities among the city's 2.3m residents and their offspring
   (hence the choice of June 1st, children's day in China).

   The response was remarkable. Xiamen has a thriving economy and little
   history of protest. Yet many thousands of people rallied and marched,
   even though it was Friday, a working day, and as usual hot and humid.
   They came mostly from China's fast-growing middle class, a group the
   Communist Party usually regards as a dependable bulwark of support. In
   many Chinese cities there have been small-scale middle-class protests
   over issues related to property rights. But they are rarely directed
   at city governments.

   Even more remarkable is that the protest occurred in the face of clear
   government disapproval. Civil servants were warned they might be
   punished for taking part. Government offices even required their
   employees to keep working on the weekend of June 2nd and 3rd to
   prevent them taking to the streets. On May 30th the government
   appeared to make a big concession by announcing a suspension of the
   project pending a further environmental review. But the protest went
   ahead two days later anyway. At one point some people shouted slogans
   calling on the city's party chief, He Lifeng, to resign, but the
   demonstration was peaceful. Thousands marched again on June 2nd.

   The text message seemed to touch a raw nerve. Public confidence in the
   city leadership had been damaged by a proposal submitted to China's
   parliament in March by senior academics that the Taiwanese-owned
   paraxylene plant be moved further away from residential areas.
   Previously, say residents, the Xiamen government had given no
   indication that paraxylene might be hazardous. Criticism of the
   project began to flourish on local internet chat forums and blogs.
   Many complained that the plant would further ruin a once pleasant
   seaside city already threatened by smog and polluted seawater.

   The protests in Xiamen must be worrying to officials in Beijing. Urban
   environments have been deteriorating across the country. If tolerance
   for this among the middle classes were to crumble, unrest could
   spread. Ominously, from the party's perspective, hundreds of Beijing
   residents rallied outside the offices of the State Environmental
   Protection Administration (SEPA) on June 5th. Their complaint was
   about plans to build a waste incinerator in the north-west of the
   city, which they said could spread toxic chemicals. Two days later
   SEPA called for a further investigation of the incinerator project as
   well as of Xiamen's urban development plans.

   Chinese leaders have been similarly quick to respond to the torrent of
   online protest--and even some stiff criticism by the state-owned
   press--provoked by the reports of slave labour in the provinces of
   Shanxi in the north, and Henan, to its south. A petition posted on
   June 7th by fathers of abducted boys on [4]Tianya, a popular internet
   discussion forum, spread rapidly. Official newspapers soon picked up
   the story, describing the brutal conditions in which the labourers
   were held captive and the indifference of local police. Within eight
   days China's leading politicians were reported to have stepped in.
   Hundreds of "slaves" were declared to have been freed and many of
   their bosses arrested.

   In Xiamen, having made their last-minute concession, officials are now
   trying to track down behind-the-scenes organisers of the protests
   (some residents believe property developers, worried about the impact
   of the project on prices, encouraged people to take part). Notices
   have been put up in residential buildings calling on protesters to
   surrender themselves to police. But such tactics inspire far less fear
   than they did in the wake of the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989.
   Some residents say they now want a referendum on the project. A
   professor at Xiamen University says that if the project's opponents
   win, a new "environmental consciousness" will spread to other Chinese
   cities.

   For all their pro-green rhetoric, China's leaders would abhor this.
   They remain deeply wary of environmental groups, fearful that if given
   a free rein they could rapidly mobilise middle-class opinion against
   government policies. Nick Young of China Development Brief, a
   newsletter, says that these concerns increased in the wake of
   democratic revolutions early this decade in several former Soviet
   states. Although they eased a bit last year, Mr Young thinks the
   government will remain cautious. Xiamen has only one officially
   registered non-governmental environmental group. It has kept itself
   nervously aloof from the paraxylene-plant campaign. In Xiamen as
   elsewhere, it is China's online civil society that is leading the
   charge.


   Government and opposition limber up for March's presidential poll


   WITH the new year, election season has arrived in Taiwan.
   Parliamentary and presidential elections loom in the next three
   months. As always, the government in Beijing will be watching keenly.
   The first contest, on January 12th, is for Taiwan's legislature. The
   opposition Nationalist Party, the Kuomintang (KMT), which favours
   better relations with the mainland, is expected to retain its
   majority.

   The KMT hopes a decisive victory will give it momentum for the big
   prize, the presidency, to be decided on March 22nd. Ousted in 2000
   after five decades in power, the KMT is desperate to win it back. Its
   hopes were raised on December 28th when a court rejected an appeal
   against the acquittal on corruption charges of Ma Ying-jeou, the
   party's former chairman. This cleared him to contest the presidency.

   The ruling Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), on the other hand, is
   planning to use its expected defeat to argue against a concentration
   of power in KMT hands. Its presidential candidate, Frank Hsieh, will
   remind voters of the authoritarianism that marked KMT rule in the 20th
   century.

   Turnout may be no more than 60%, low by Taiwan's standards. Years of
   political mudslinging between the big parties have brought
   disillusionment and apathy. And unfamiliarity with a new electoral
   system may also deter voters. Taiwan has adopted a "single-seat, dual
   vote" system similar to those used in Japan and Germany. Voters will
   choose one direct representative per constituency and a preferred
   party to provide "at-large" members of parliament. There are 113
   seats, of which 73 are directly elected, 34 at-large and six reserved
   for aboriginal candidates. The KMT is expected to win 60-65 seats, the
   DPP 35-45.

   In 2005 the constitution was amended to halve the size of the
   legislature. The idea was to make it less chaotic and prone to
   fisticuffs. But the new rules are likely to result in a body stacked
   with local powerbrokers who care little about national policy.
   Intending to break the two-party dominance of Taiwan's
   rough-and-tumble political system, Lee Teng-hui, a former president,
   has urged voters to opt for minority parties. He even hopes the
   emergence of a third force in local politics could produce another
   presidential candidate.

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

                  Read her nails: Ma Ying-jeou is innocent

   The legislative-election campaign has been dominated by two issues.
   One is the DPP's drive to expunge from Taiwan symbols of Chiang
   Kai-shek, the KMT leader, who led its retreat from mainland China in
   1949. This week, the Chiang Kai-shek memorial hall in Taipei reopened
   as a "democracy memorial", highlighting the human-rights abuses of his
   regime.

   Second is a procedural dispute over two referendums to be held with
   the election. One, initiated by the DPP, relates to the KMT's "stolen
   assets". The other, introduced by the KMT, which this week
   nevertheless called a boycott of both referendums, covers alleged
   corruption by the DPP and President Chen Shui-bian.

   More important for the DPP than the issues themselves is the chance to
   settle procedures for yet another referendum, to be held at the same
   time as the presidential election. It will ask whether Taiwan should
   apply for membership of the United Nations using the name "Taiwan"
   rather than its antiquated formal title, "the Republic of China". This
   appeals to the DPP's core supporters, who see themselves as Taiwanese,
   not Chinese. So it is a device both to win votes and raise turnout.
   But it alarms China, which sees it as a step towards a formal
   declaration of Taiwan's independence--an event China has said could
   provoke an invasion. So China, as usual, will be rooting for the KMT.
   In Taiwan, that is not an advantage.


   Huddled masses, yearning to be free and going to China


   AT FIRST glance, Yunnan would seem the sort of place a pious Muslim
   should avoid. AIDS is rampant in this province in south-western China
   and Beijing's efforts have failed to curb the drugs and prostitution
   that spread the disease. Moreover China has an appalling record of
   suppressing religious freedom, including that of Muslims. In its
   western region of Xinjiang some have taken up arms.

   Yet Muslims from neighbouring Myanmar flock to Yunnan. In cities such
   as Jinghong and Liuku, they sell Burmese gems in shops decorated with
   Arabic calligraphy and pictures of Mecca. A jeweller in Jinghong, who
   has lived here for six years, says that in Myanmar "the Buddhists
   fight us Muslims and don't let us work. The government is very evil.
   Here in China you can work in peace."

   No one knows how many Burmese live in Yunnan. Many enter illegally.
   Official statistics suggest that Muslims make up about 4% of Myanmar's
   population of around 47m, but that is almost certainly an
   underestimate. The ruling junta has a history of discrimination
   against Muslims, particularly the Rohingya ethnic group, more than
   250,000 of whom fled from Arakan province into neighbouring Bangladesh
   in the early 1990s.

   Mosques and schools in Myanmar are shut down arbitrarily. Many Muslims
   find their movements restricted unless they pay hefty bribes; others
   languish in detention after officially instigated clashes with
   Buddhists. It does not help that their political sympathies often lie
   with the democratic opposition, whose leader, Aung San Suu Kyi,
   remains in detention.

   In China, in contrast, the Burmese find that, as long as they make no
   trouble, their faith is immaterial. Compared with other countries of
   refuge, such as Bangladesh, China offers relative stability. Even
   America is not as enticing a prospect. The jeweller frets that, as a
   Muslim, he would risk jail there. Business in China is booming, too;
   jewellers can make as much as 30,000 yuan ($3,900) per month.

   The local population gives them a mixed reception. The
   Hui--ethnic-Chinese Muslims many of whom have family in Myanmar--are
   friendly to their co-religionists. Burmese men here boast of taking
   Hui mistresses and wives. But Yunnan, like much of China, remains
   plagued by vast income inequality; the wealthy jewellers live beside
   subsistence farmers. Some resent the better-educated, wealthier
   Burmese immigrants. Undercurrents of racism do exist, as do reports of
   Burmese trafficking guns and drugs.

   If the resentment flares into violence, many Chinese Hui might side
   with the Burmese. As heroin and AIDS have already shown, Myanmar's
   internal affairs are not just internal. Despite this, China helps prop
   up its repellent regime even as it offers some of its victims
   sanctuary.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e09as761;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world756;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=74383494?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=10240370
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world756;ord=1;num=1?

   A shortage of officer material is another sign of India's talent
   deficit

   A FULL-PAGE advertisement ran in many English-language newspapers in
   India on January 15th for the "Harbingers of Peace and Stability"--the
   country's 1.1m soldiers. The occasion, Army Day, is an annual
   celebration of the world's second-biggest regular force. Yet the army
   now has a particular need of publicity: in a country of over 1 billion
   people, it needs more officers. Harbingers of the right stuff are
   proving hard to find.

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

                          ...but not enough chiefs

   The army is short of 11,000 officers, almost a quarter of the total
   muster. Worse threatens. The shortage is most acute in the lower
   ranks, and the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun, a school for
   officer cadets, can currently fill only 86 of its 250 places. The army
   is also losing some of the officers that it now has: over 3,000 have
   applied for early retirement in the past three years. This week the
   army chief, General Deepak Kapoor, suggested that the government might
   one day have to introduce conscription.

   The general blamed the shortage of officer material, from which the
   navy and air force are suffering to lesser degrees, on India's zinging
   economy. Graduate hirelings of the country's trendiest
   computer-services companies can sometimes earn twice a junior
   officer's monthly salary of 20,000 rupees ($500). Moreover, the army
   has for decades been tangled up in nasty insurgencies in Kashmir and
   north-eastern India. And it has been hurt by a series of scandals,
   some involving corrupt top brass, others suicidal soldiers.

   To improve matters, the army is banking on a generous pay rise this
   year; it wants junior officers' salaries to be doubled. This would at
   least improve its bid for India's small pool of well-educated
   graduates. But, given soaring wage inflation in private firms, which
   are also struggling to hire the talent they need, it would not fix the
   problem.

   That will require a bigger talent pool. After all, there is no
   shortage of young Indians who want an army career--or indeed, given
   persistent high unemployment, any sort of career. The problem is that
   only a privileged minority of school- and college-leavers can pass the
   army's entrance exams for officer training. In order to match India's
   rise to global importance, the army needs many things: more money,
   better technology and a coherent foreign policy on which to build its
   doctrine. Above all, however, like all India, it needs more decent
   schools.


   The war is brought home to Kabul's well-protected foreigners

   THE [3]website for the Serena Hotel in Kabul used to describe it as
   "an oasis of luxury in a war-ravaged city". Afghanistan's only
   five-star hotel is also a virtual fortress, surrounded by blast
   barriers, metal detectors, multiple reinforced gates and heavily armed
   guards. They proved inadequate defences against a four-man Taliban
   suicide squad that blasted its way into the lobby and then the hotel's
   spa on January 14th, killing eight staff and guests. Among those left
   cowering in the basement as American commandos hunted the bombers was
   Norway's foreign minister, Jonas Gahr Stoere, who had been holding a
   meeting in a place seen as secure.

   The 140 suicide attacks in Afghanistan in 2007 were almost all aimed
   at Western or Afghan security forces. This was the first by the
   Taliban to make Kabul's expatriates a direct target. So far they have
   remained oddly cocooned from the violence in the south of the country,
   which took some 6,500 lives last year. Foreigners can still walk
   around Kabul with only modest caution. There are restaurants, bars and
   even brothels catering to the several thousand expatriates: mainly
   aid-workers, diplomats and security contractors.

   The use of a suicide squad recalled the tactics of Pakistani jihadist
   organisations. The Afghan security forces were quick to accuse a
   Pakistan-based Taliban commander, Sirajuddin Haqqani, of plotting the
   attack. After the Serena bombing, a Taliban spokesman threatened
   similar violence against Western restaurants. All of this has sent a
   chill through Kabul's foreign residents. But this is still not
   Baghdad. Few of Kabul's inhabitants support the Taliban or want to see
   Western troops or aid agencies leave. There are 20,000 Western and
   Afghan troops defending the city.

   Before the attack there had been explicit security warnings. In the
   hours afterwards Afghan forces reportedly arrested many of the
   suicide-bombers' support team. The strength of the Taliban in the
   provinces close to Kabul does appear to be growing. But, backed by
   Western intelligence agencies, Kabul's security services seem to be
   growing more effective.

   However, the fear remains that if bombers started killing large
   numbers of expatriates they might force the withdrawal of some Western
   aid agencies and perhaps even the UN. That would be bad news for the
   international reconstruction effort, and worse still for the Afghan
   people.


   Rivalries between caste and ethnic groups threaten the peace process


   IN THE benign view of many Nepalis, their country's 100 or so ethnic
   and caste groups have co-existed for centuries in remarkable peace and
   harmony. A new crop of ethnically-based groups, however, see things
   very differently. For them, the history of Nepal is one of remarkably
   successful and sustained discrimination. As the country of 28m people
   edges towards a solution to ten years of Maoist insurgency, these
   ancient cracks are being exposed.

   Since the beginning of the year, a succession of previously
   little-known organisations have vied to bring Nepal to a standstill.
   First came the Madhesi movement, some half a dozen competing groups
   claiming to represent Nepalis from the southern plains, known as the
   Terai. At least 30 people died in three weeks of violent protests,
   mostly shot by the police.

   In Janakpur, one of the worst affected areas, locals are angry, but
   sense historic change in the offing. A radio producer compares the
   mood to that of being weighed down by a boulder on the head and unable
   to stand up. "Then she throws it off. That's the Madhesi movement."

   Next to take to the streets was the Nepal Federation of Indigenous
   Nationalities, claiming to represent various peoples from the
   Himalayan foothills, which began its own series of crippling strikes.
   Several other ethnic identities have been invoked and the noise is
   likely to grow.

   These groups want an end to domination by the two highest Hindu
   castes--Brahmins (the priestly caste) and Chhetris (warriors), who
   make up about 28% of the population. These castes have controlled the
   country since it was unified in the 18th century. Power has often
   changed hands between them, and seems to be doing so again. Street
   protests last April toppled an essentially Chhetri royal government.
   Now, a coalition government of Brahmin-dominated political parties is
   negotiating with Maoist rebels, who have exploited caste and ethnic
   grievances, but are themselves largely led by Brahmins.

   Peace hinges on elections, due in June, to an assembly set up to write
   a new constitution. There is much talk of creating a "new Nepal". Yet
   many groups fear the Maoists will simply slip in at the top of the
   existing power structure while other interests are ignored again. A
   piece of ethnic propaganda shows two images of the Maoist leader,
   known as Prachanda. In one he eats beef--a taboo for Hindus--like an
   atheist rebel. In the next he drinks cow urine, like an orthodox
   Brahmin.

   The various ethnic groups present similar, though vague, demands for
   proportional representation in the elections and an ethnic-federalist
   structure in the new constitution. The government and the Maoists have
   conceded both demands, though equally vaguely. Meanwhile promised
   negotiations with the agitators have not materialised. Doubting the
   government's sincerity, the ethnic groups are continuing their strikes
   and protests.

   The benefits of federalism and proportional representation are widely
   recognised, but hard to deliver. According to Krishna Khanal of
   Kathmandu's Tribhuvan University, Nepal's ethnic and caste groups are
   so many and so scattered that among the dozen or so states a federal
   Nepal might include it is only possible to create three with a clear
   identity.

   Lok Raj Baral, a political scientist, says that in a system of
   proportional representation some of the Brahmin politicians on whom
   the parties depend must lose out. But the agitators hold some
   important advantages--especially the Madhesis, who live in an
   economically important area and control supply routes to the capital.

   There can be no election until their grievances, and those of others,
   have been tackled. Already it seems certain that the June deadline for
   the poll will be missed, undermining the peace process. The
   uncertainty gives greater influence to minor players, such as the
   Madhesi separatist guerrilla leader known as Jwala Singh, who is at
   present in hiding. Like many of the new breed, Mr Singh is a former
   Maoist. He accuses his former comrades of not taking a clear stand on
   Madhesi rights. Mr Singh has the armed strength to scare people and
   order killings but, in an interview, he implied that he would drop his
   separatist demands in exchange for recognition and a seat at the
   table. Two other violent Madhesi groups have recently emerged. They,
   too, seem to see a chance to spoil the peace process or wring
   concessions from the government.

   The biggest losers from the rise of ethnic politics are the Maoists.
   They have seen ethnic supporters who backed them during the conflict
   drift away as they draw closer to national power. They have responded
   by attacking their Madhesi rivals.

   In daily thuggery the Maoists show that, ceasefire or not, they still
   rely on violence. They have set the example for the new batch of
   politicians. That makes it even harder to achieve a feat not tried
   since 1999, but essential if Nepal is to move on from the bloody
   decline of the past ten years: holding elections that are both
   peaceful and inclusive.


   Electoral humiliation marks the end of the Chen Shui-bian era 

                                                                       AP

                                     AP


   CHEN SHUI-BIAN, Taiwan's president, called it the worst defeat in the
   history of his Democratic Progressive Party (DPP). After eight years
   of Mr Chen's lacklustre rule, it was routed in the legislative
   election on January 12th. The opposition Nationalist party, the
   Kuomintang (KMT), which wants much closer ties with China, is girding
   itself to return to power.

   Having won more than 70% of the parliamentary seats, the KMT hopes its
   candidate, Ma Ying-jeou, will stroll to victory in the presidential
   poll on March 22nd. Under Mr Ma, the KMT--which ruled all of China
   until it fled the Communists to take refuge in Taiwan in
   1949--predicts rapid improvements in relations with China: regular
   direct flights between Taiwan and the mainland (non-existent since
   1949); many more Chinese tourists; and fewer investment barriers
   between the two sides.

   But Mr Ma cannot rest easy. As they announced their victory in the
   legislative polls, he and his colleagues did not look jubilant. The
   DPP's share of the seats had fallen from nearly 40% to under a
   quarter. The Taiwan Solidarity Union, whose support had helped it
   control about 45% of the seats in 2004, was wiped out. Yet the DPP's
   share of the vote, 38%, was much the same; and turnout, at under 60%,
   was low. The DPP believes many of its voters stayed at home. They
   could still, despite what the polls say, tip the balance in favour of
   the DPP's presidential candidate, Frank Hsieh.

   Mr Hsieh must be feeling a little happier now that he has taken over
   the chairmanship of the DPP from Mr Chen, who stepped down to atone
   for the defeat. (He will relinquish the presidency in May, on reaching
   the two-term limit.) Mr Chen had tried in vain to rally support for
   the DPP by playing up Taiwan's separateness from China. Mr Hsieh is
   more loth to provoke the Chinese and shares the KMT's desire for
   closer economic ties. He will want to distance himself from Mr Chen,
   some of whose family members and aides have been dogged by allegations
   of corruption.

   The economy will be a big issue in the presidential poll. Taiwan's GDP
   has been growing at 4-5% annually for the past three years.
   Unemployment has stayed at around 4% and inflation last year averaged
   below 2%. But despite these respectable figures, many in Taiwan
   believe the economy would do better still if opened further to China.
   The DPP's fears of a "hollowing out" of Taiwanese manufacturing as the
   island's industries move to the mainland have failed to materialise.

   The DPP administration has tried some opening up. In the face of
   China's bar on direct contact with Taiwan's government, it has allowed
   negotiations between quasi-private bodies from the two sides, aimed at
   allowing 1,000 mainland tourists a day to visit the island without
   having to pass through a third country, as Taiwan now requires. At
   present only a couple of hundred Chinese tourists come each day.
   Agreement has been held up by bickering over whether such tourism
   should be described as between countries. China apparently believes
   that it would be easier to deal with Mr Ma, who wants 3,000 a day.

   Taiwan's hoteliers and shopkeepers, mindful of how big-spending
   Chinese tourists have helped Hong Kong's economy, are anxious for a
   breakthrough. In the central city of Taichung, the mayor, Jason Hu of
   the KMT, says three five-star hotels have been built in the past two
   years to prepare for the Chinese influx. With no sign yet of its
   arrival, the hotels are suffering. Despite the KMT's own
   stand-offishness towards China until the 1990s, Mr Hu unabashedly
   blames the DPP.

   The KMT's supporters say that if their party held both the presidency
   and the legislature, it would end the deadlock of Mr Chen's rule,
   during which the KMT and its allies have controlled enough seats to
   block DPP legislation. The KMT's plans are ambitious. It says it will
   boost GDP growth to at least 6% a year, with the help of more than $80
   billion in government spending over the next eight years on a variety
   of big projects ranging from sewage-treatment plants to
   public-transport projects. Vincent Siew, a former prime minister and
   Mr Ma's running-mate, says the party may even revive plans--vigorously
   opposed by the DPP--to expand the country's nuclear-power capacity.

   The KMT's ideas for dealing with China are no less ambitious. Mr Siew
   says a cap on investment in China by any Taiwanese company--of 40% of
   its net worth--would be lifted. Direct Chinese investment in Taiwan
   would be allowed for the first time. Su Chi, a KMT legislator, says an
   agreement with China on direct scheduled flights and cross-strait
   shipping would be reached within a year.

   Mr Ma has said that as president he would not enter talks with China
   about reunification. But if China removed the hundreds of missiles it
   has pointed at Taiwan, he would discuss a peace agreement. Last
   October China's president, Hu Jintao, also called for a peace accord,
   but on "the condition of the one-China principle". That is, Taiwan
   would have to accept it is in effect part of the People's Republic.
   Even the KMT balks at that.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   Amid a worrying surge in Islamic militancy, a fight between rival
   radicals may not be the good news Pakistan says it is


   IN PAKISTAN, more alarmingly even than usual, the flag of jihad is
   fluttering and extremists are marching on the state. Of several
   concurrent--partly co-ordinated--dramas involving Islamist militants,
   the bloodiest is in South Waziristan, a semi-autonomous tribal region
   on Pakistan's north-western frontier. In three weeks of high-altitude
   battle there between local Taliban and foreign--mostly
   Uzbek--Islamists, more than 250 foreigners are reported to have been
   killed. The army, which has failed to clear the foreigners from South
   Waziristan in four years of trying, announced on April 9th that the
   Talibs had done so. Yet quite why this fight began, whether it has
   ended, and what it means for Pakistan and the broader "war on terror"
   all remain unclear.

   A less obscure struggle was launched in Islamabad on April 6th by a
   mullah named Abdul Aziz. He gave the government a month to close the
   capital's brothels and music shops, and tear down advertisements
   depicting women. He also declared sharia law within the high walls of
   his mosque and the adjoining madrassa. If the government were to
   respond with force, he promised it suicide-bombings. After hearing
   this sermon, Mr Aziz's followers, allegedly more than 10,000 bearded
   males and burqa-clad females, set fire in the street to a pyre of
   music videos and CDs extracted from local traders. The mosque, Lal
   Masjid, on the roof of which these young zealots can be seen
   practising martial moves with staves, is barely a mile from Pakistan's
   supreme court, parliament building and the headquarters of the
   Inter-Services Intelligence Agency (ISI).

   For much of Pakistan's history, the ISI, the army's main spying
   outfit, has mobilised Islamists to fight its wars, in Afghanistan,
   Kashmir and elsewhere. This was consistent with a broader policy,
   pursued by successive--especially military--governments, of pandering
   to Islamists. Because it had made common cause with the fanatics, the
   army thought it could control them. If this were ever true, it is not
   now.

   On March 29th a suicide-bomber killed one soldier and mutilated
   several others in an army compound in Kharian, 160km (100 miles)
   south-east of Islamabad. Two days earlier, five ISI officers were
   killed in a grenade attack in Bajaur, another of the seven tribal
   agencies (see map). The suicide blast was the eighth this year,
   including two in Islamabad, and all, says a senior intelligence
   official, were linked to militants in Waziristan.

   The violence comes at a bad time for General Pervez Musharraf,
   Pakistan's uniformed president. Over the past month, he has faced
   rowdy strikes and protests from the country's black-coated lawyers,
   over a crude attempt to sack the country's top judge--an attempt,
   allege his opponents, to make sure any constitutional shenanigans
   escape judicial censure. In an election year these civilian opponents,
   whom the general has outwitted for a decade, scent blood. Two exiled
   leaders, Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif, are rallying their followers
   to the lawyers' protests. In all the fuss, sectarian bloodletting last
   week in Kurram, another tribal agency, barely merited a mention in the
   nation's press. Only 40 Sunnis and Shias were reported killed.

   Not much more attention--in Pakistan at least--was paid to one of the
   first judgments of Mr Aziz's new sharia court--a fatwa issued on April
   8th calling for the sacking and punishment of the tourism minister,
   Nilofar Bakhtiar. Her alleged crime was to have received an elated hug
   (a restrained pat on the back, she says) from a French paraglider
   after the pair completed a glide together in Paris. Besides promoting
   Pakistan as an ideal tourist destination, Ms Bakhtiar's stunt was
   supposed to draw attention to the plight of children orphaned by the
   earthquake in Kashmir and North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) in
   October 2005. Many, incidentally, are reported to have been taken in
   by madrassas such as Mr Aziz's.

   Amid all this distressing news, the government is striving to present
   the fighting in South Waziristan as something positive. It describes
   it as local tribes recoiling against al-Qaeda-type militants in their
   midst. There may be some truth in this. But it is hard to celebrate a
   war that appears to have cemented the authority of a Taliban militia,
   modelled on Mullah Omar's Afghan original--over a swathe of the
   strategic border region, from which its fighters launch attacks on
   American and NATO troops in neighbouring Afghanistan.

   At the least, the fighting may signal a definitive end to the army's
   own effort to purge the foreign militants. It has deployed 80,000
   troops to the tribal areas, of whom some 700 have been killed. Seen
   locally as an invading army, this has inspired fanatical resistance,
   undermined the civil administration in Waziristan, and helped spread
   Taliban rule outside the tribal areas and into the NWFP itself. In the
   districts of Tank and Bannu, police posts have been abandoned and
   barbers sent packing. In another district, Malakand, a militant leader
   named Fazalullah, the son-in-law of a chieftain who sent thousands to
   Afghanistan to fight for the Taliban against America and its allies in
   2001, is reported to be wandering on horseback, delivering Taliban
   edicts through a megaphone.

   The army advanced into the tribal areas--for the first time in
   Pakistan's history--soon after America's 2001 invasion of Afghanistan.
   Coming the other way, thousands of Taliban and the foreign jihadists
   they had sheltered fled the superpower's bombs. It was a natural
   sanctuary. The Taliban were mostly Pushtuns, an ethnic group
   straddling the border, and included many Pakistanis, mostly from the
   tribal areas, and of these especially Wazirs.

   This was partly a result of the ISI's support for the Taliban, and its
   ability to manipulate the Wazirs, who, with a predilection for jihad
   and a history of raiding Afghanistan, were not unwilling tools.
   Indeed, the pitiful deprivation of the tribal areas left them few
   better options.

   Pakistan's normal writ does not extend to these areas; neither do its
   benefits. They are governed according to a British colonial model by a
   powerful bureaucrat called the political agent, who reports to the
   president. Acting through local elders, called maliks, the agent's
   single main charge is to keep the tribes in check. To that end, he can
   levy harsh collective punishments, such as demolishing houses or
   imprisoning women and children. Wazirs call these powers the "black
   laws". Interestingly, liberal Pakistanis refer to a raft of laws that
   discriminate against women and non-Muslims, introduced by General Zia
   ul-Haq, a former military dictator, Islamist and American ally, by the
   same name.

   In the wilderness

   So long as they do not upset the political agent, the tribes have been
   left to rule themselves--through jirgas, tribal councils, or, when
   they feel threatened and their jihadist blood is up, sharia courts.
   They are probably the most neglected Pakistanis. Waziristan has one
   hospital bed per 6,000 inhabitants, and a literacy rate of around 10%.
   More than 80% of males are educated in madrassas and girls not at all.
   Since 1997, residents of the tribal areas have been permitted to vote,
   but political parties may not campaign among them. Small wonder if
   they feel ambivalent towards Pakistan.

   The tribal areas were also a second home for foreign militants. Many,
   including Osama bin Laden, learned their trade there during the
   anti-Soviet jihad in the 1980s. Anecdotes suggest that 300 al-Qaeda
   fighters, mostly Arabs, survived the group's last stand at Tora Bora,
   on the Afghan side of the border, and fled into Kurram. About 130 were
   swiftly arrested. Of the remainder--often called "core
   al-Qaeda"--there has been little sign. A handful of mid-rankers has
   been picked off by the Pakistanis, including a couple in or around the
   tribal areas. Last year, when Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, boss of al-Qaeda's
   franchise in Iraq, was killed, a document retrieved from his hideout
   suggested the group's leaders were in Waziristan. But since 2001
   surprisingly few Arab jihadists have been encountered, willingly or
   otherwise, by Western soldiers in Afghanistan or by the Pakistanis
   next door.

   The foreigners fighting in Waziristan are mostly Uzbeks, mainly from a
   hapless militant group, the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, which was
   chased into Afghanistan in the late 1990s. Among them is said to be a
   handful of Uighurs from Xinjiang in China and Chechens--allegedly
   including the staff of the Chechen embassy to Afghanistan under the
   Taliban. A few members of this job lot of jihadists, estimated at
   between 800 and 5,000 fighters, are reported to have been settled in
   Waziristan since the 1980s. Others have come since 2001, according to
   a Pakistani intelligence official, who claims to have interviewed a
   woman trafficked from Uzbekistan to become a jihadist's wife.

   As the army fought its way into first South, then North, Waziristan in
   2003-05, the Uzbeks allied with the Wazir and Mahsud tribes against
   it. The alliance was forged principally by a charismatic Wazir
   commander, Nek Muhammad, a veteran of battles against the Soviet
   forces and with the Taliban against their Afghan enemies. A
   long-haired, wild-eyed warrior, a type common in Wazir history, Nek
   Muhammad was killed by the army in 2004. It had signed a treaty with
   him shortly before, in effect giving his Pakistani Taliban the run of
   South Waziristan. Nek Muhammad's five senior commanders and one or two
   rivals have since been jostling for command, executing criminals and
   launching attacks into Afghanistan.

   The latest fighting involving the Uzbeks is in part a product of this
   feuding. Two of the five commanders, who are all from the Wazir
   Yargulkhel tribe, have fought alongside the Uzbeks. They include Haji
   Omar, who until recently was considered Nek Muhammad's anointed
   successor. According to Brigadier Mahmood Shah, the army officer who
   drafted the deal with Nek Muhammad, Haji Omar's main weakness is a
   certain irascibility caused by a Soviet bullet lodged in his brain.
   This makes him a "wonky sort of chap". The rival side, including most
   of the Yargulkhel, is led by another Taliban commander named Muhammad
   Nazir. By kicking out the foreigners, Mr Nazir plainly hopes to emerge
   as Nek Muhammad's unrivalled successor.

   It would not be surprising if, as the government claims, Mr Nazir's
   campaign is popular. Wazirs are a xenophobic and conservative bunch.
   They are scandalised by some of their Uzbek guests, who drink alcohol,
   poach women, survive on banditry and are said to be loth to wage jihad
   in Afghanistan. The Uzbeks are also accused of the murder of 180
   maliks in South Waziristan, which was the final blow for the local
   administration.

   Talib v Talib

   To fight the Uzbeks, Mr Nazir has received support, allegedly
   including airstrikes and artillery, from the army. There are some
   indications that his alleged victory augurs well. For example, several
   top-level Afghan Taliban, including a son of Jalaluddin Haqqani, a
   noted outlaw, are reported to have tried and failed to arrange a truce
   in South Waziristan. But it is also possible that America, which
   covers the cost of Pakistan's operations in the tribal areas, has in
   fact been paying for Mr Nazir's Taliban to kill Uzbek militants
   because of their reluctance to kill American troops.

   If that were true, Pakistan would not mind unduly. Its priority is to
   wrest back a sort of control over the tribal areas. To that end, after
   the failure of its military operations, the government has in fact
   made several deals with the militants in a vain effort to buy their
   obedience. A pact in North Waziristan last September produced a
   similar result to that with Nek Muhammad. The militants rarely attack
   Pakistani troops there, partly because they are too busy pouring into
   Afghanistan. In February America's then top general in Afghanistan,
   Karl Eikenberry, claimed that cross-border attacks had risen threefold
   since that deal.

   The fighting between Mr Nazir and the Uzbeks might suggest that
   Pakistan has abandoned such mollifying tactics in favour of
   time-honoured divide-and-rule. That would bring short-term gains, at
   best. It will not roll back the Taliban. That vast task will probably
   require massive economic development of the tribal areas and their
   incorporation into the regular Pakistani state. Indeed this has always
   been official policy. But, as so often in Pakistan, it has been
   blocked by vested interests: the army, which saw the tribal areas as
   its adventurist playground; elite bureaucrats, who coveted appointment
   as political agents, sometimes allegedly as a chance to make corrupt
   fortunes from taxing smugglers; and the mullahs, who are said to
   control more than 3,000 madrassas in the NWFP, well financed by Gulf
   countries.

   In the absence of competition from the secular political parties,
   Islamic parties clean up the local vote in the tribal area. Typically,
   the government's chief negotiator with Mr Nazir is Fazlur Rahman, the
   Islamist leader of the parliamentary opposition. As so often, the
   general seems torn between unleashing reforms and falling prisoner to
   the vested interests. His instincts are for reform. Programmes to
   bring better health care and education to the tribal areas are already
   under way--America has contributed $38m to these since 2002 and
   promises more. Last year, moreover, a committee of Pushtun
   grandees--retired civil servants, judges and so forth--was told to
   find out what the tribals wanted. After holding jirgas across the
   tribal areas, these wise men reported that they wanted the black laws
   repealed, gradual recourse to the laws of the state and the same
   freedoms as other Pakistanis. For these sensible proposals General
   Musharraf has yet to show any enthusiasm.


   Everybody claims a breakthrough with North Korea. This sounds familiar


   BRINGING his own food, and accompanied by 300 business, political and
   cultural figures--but excluding the international press--President Roh
   Moo-hyun of South Korea drove to Pyongyang on October 2nd to call upon
   North Korea's Kim Jong Il. At the heavily-armed border, which Bill
   Clinton once described as "the world's scariest place", Mr Roh got out
   of his limousine to cross on foot--a step, he wanted everyone to know,
   that symbolised a desire for peace and reconciliation between the two
   estranged sides of a bloody civil war that remains unresolved more
   than 50 years after it ground to a halt.

                                                                      EPA
                                                                      EPA

                                             The end of the line for Kim?

   It was only the second-ever meeting between leaders of the two
   countries, and Mr Roh's gambit was aimed at the history books. He
   wanted to salvage an ineffectual presidency, which ends in December,
   by asking Mr Kim to reduce tensions on the peninsula in return for
   economy-transforming aid and investment. Mr Roh's approach has led to
   divisions even among his own advisers. Some, such as the unification
   minister, Lee Jae-joung--described by one Western diplomat as an
   "unguided missile"--are gung-ho for reconciliation and are prepared to
   overlook a lot of Mr Kim's unpleasantness.

   Others despise the repressive regime of Mr Kim, and know that behind
   him lies a trail of broken promises. To offer too much now might also
   undermine the multilateral "six-party" process taking place in
   parallel, in which North Korea is being offered measured aid in return
   for clear steps towards dismantling its nuclear capabilities.

   Though this summit drew the opaque Mr Kim out from the shadows
   somewhat, he remains hard to read. During the first summit, in 2000,
   when he met Mr Roh's predecessor, Kim Dae-jung, Mr Kim was all
   bear-hugs and smiles. That meeting generated mass euphoria in North
   and South, but little of substance came of it--not even Mr Kim's
   promised return visit to Seoul. It later turned out that $500m had
   been paid to Mr Kim just for the audience.

   This week the befuddled looks of farmers as Mr Roh's presidential
   cavalcade swept up the highway to Pyongyang suggested that Mr Kim had
   not let all his compatriots in on the historic moment, one for which
   Mr Roh has begged for years. Though a handpicked crowd in the capital
   gave a joyous reception, waving artificial bunches of Kimjongilia, a
   strain of begonia that is a national flower, Mr Kim himself was stiff
   and tight-lipped. To many of his countrymen, he will have looked on
   television like an emperor receiving tribute. But many outsiders once
   again wondered about the health of the pallid, pot-bellied
   65-year-old. Mr Kim is known to have had heart problems, and some
   intelligence analysts recently have claimed to see the early signs of
   senile dementia--though this is mere conjecture.

   From what can be gleaned of their substance, talks between the two
   leaders on October 3rd only emphasised the distance still to travel.
   Mr Kim may be willing to squeeze the outside world for aid--but on his
   terms. So Mr Roh's offer of what amounted to a Marshall Plan to
   transform North Korea's economy in pursuit of Chinese-style
   liberalisation met with blank dismissal. Mr Kim does not even like a
   showcase industrial park at Kaesong, where South Korean manufacturers
   employ cheap North Korean labour, to be described as a model of
   successful "reform". Once again, Mr Kim showed how he puts his own
   survival over that of the North Koreans he brutalises.

   Yet a joint agreement was announced on October 4th, something Mr Roh
   will be able to take home with relief. Gone were his hopes for great
   involvement in the North, but there was agreement to allow freight
   trains into Kaesong. There was a recommitment to help families divided
   by the civil war to meet (though a word from Mr Kim is all it would
   take to solve that sad problem). Talks will be sought with America and
   China to put a formal end to the civil war (though peace on the
   peninsula, these countries are likely to argue, can only come after
   its denuclearisation). Steps were promised (as, fruitlessly, they were
   at the 2000 summit) to reduce military tensions: defence ministers
   would meet, while a disputed western maritime area would see its
   fisheries jointly mined.

   Promising as all this sounds, much of it merely repeats earlier
   promises. In the long run, Mr Kim has never really seen his interests
   as best served by closer relations with the South. They might lead,
   eventually, to reunification and hence to his dynasty's extinction.
   China, Japan, Russia and America, the other parties in the six-party
   talks, may loathe his regime, but they are in effect helping to prop
   it up.

   Peace dividend

   As Mr Roh struggled to secure his piece of paper in Pyongyang, the
   Chinese government this week declared a breakthrough in those talks as
   well. Almost a year after North Korea exploded a nuclear bomb, the
   Chinese said the country had agreed to disable its main nuclear
   reactor and reprocessing plant at Yongbyon by the year's end (this,
   the main source of the North's bomb-grade plutonium, has been shut
   since July). North Korea has also promised to give a full account of
   all its nuclear activities by then. If it sticks to this pledge--and
   American-led inspection teams are to oversee the disablement,
   starting, said negotiators, as early as this month--then the North
   will get about $100m in aid. Meanwhile, America says it will drop the
   North from its list of states that sponsor terrorism, a central North
   Korean demand.

   In Washington, DC, the administration hailed the pact, which had
   George Bush's personal nod, as a real step on the path to a
   nuclear-free Korean peninsula. Others remain sceptical until the fine
   print is known. And no one doubts that the next stage after
   declaration and disablement--getting North Korea to give up its
   handful of nuclear weapons along with its stock of fissile
   material--will prove by far the hardest. For now, Mr Kim is being
   given the benefit of the doubt. Not for the first time, he may turn a
   profit from that. Perhaps the brutalised country he has done so much
   to impoverish might even benefit too.


   For Muslims and other minorities, the monks' battle was not their
   fight


   IN THE streets surrounding the Sule Paya pagoda in downtown Yangon,
   Burmese Muslims ply their trade, selling sweetmeats, calligraphy or
   spectacles. When the military junta opened fire on protesters led by
   monks in September, the Muslims had an excellent view of the violence.
   But for all the expletives they threw at the government, many
   refrained from joining the protesters. "It's a Burmese problem," says
   a grizzled old man, lolling outside the mosque opposite the pagoda.
   "Let them deal with it. They don't think of us as being of their
   country." The sense of being apart from Myanmar is an example of the
   religious and ethnic divisions that will persist, even if military
   rule eventually gives way to democracy.

   The complexities of national identity are starkest in Sittwe, the
   capital of Rakhine (formerly Arakan) state in western Myanmar,
   bordering Bangladesh. Sittwe's Muslims, who form anywhere from a third
   to half of the local population (official estimates of Muslim numbers
   are notoriously unreliable), are a mixed lot. Some claim descent from
   Indian and Bengali immigrants, who arrived in the once-thriving port
   when Burma was still a place where fortunes could be made. Others
   belong to the Rakhine ethnic group. Still others claim a distinct
   Rohingya ethnicity (a designation the junta does not recognise). But
   on one point, all agree: the government, being Buddhist, discriminates
   against Muslims. "The infidels are cruel to us and beat us," goes a
   common refrain.

   Severe poverty--the sight of ten people living under a single roof
   without electricity is as common as that of forced labour on the roads
   along the marshy sea--exacerbates Muslim resentment, particularly
   given the false but intractable belief that Myanmar's Buddhists are
   getting rich. Although incidents of outright violence have decreased,
   relations between Muslims and Buddhists remain tense. Some Muslims
   take satisfaction from the government's crackdown on the monks. "They
   [the junta] put them on a pedestal and now they're the ones having a
   problem," grins one local imam. Amongst Sittwe's Muslims, the
   otherwise universal admiration for Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of the
   opposition, is tempered. "She can't help being an improvement on the
   current government," says the imam. "But she's Buddhist too. She's
   probably not very good on the Muslim question."

   Religion is not the only source of division. Race plays a powerful
   role. Sittwe's Muslims, like its rarer Hindus, find it almost
   impossible to travel outside Rakhine state. Even inside it, paperwork
   and perpetual inspections can make a simple fishing trip harrowing.
   Most attribute these restrictions to the government's belief that
   Rakhine is plagued by illegal immigrants from India and Bangladesh who
   do not deserve citizenship or the right to travel.

   Such oversimplifications miss the demographic complexities of Sittwe.
   Some residents are Indians who were born there. Others are products of
   mixed marriages. Many have family members in other parts of Myanmar
   whom they might never see again. "There have been Muslims here since
   before the British ever came to Burma," says a local teacher. "And
   yes, a lot of the people here did come over from Bangladesh. But that
   was years and years ago." Small wonder that most of Sittwe's people
   nowadays just want to leave. "I'd go to Malaysia or even Bangladesh,"
   says a young man who was born of a Bengali father and Rakhine mother.
   "But I don't have the money."

   Though it is most potent amongst Muslims, the idea of not belonging is
   common among other ethnic and religious minorities. Sittwe's Hindus
   also say they are locked out of the labour market. Buddhists in
   Rakhine often identify themselves as belonging "Not [to] Myanmar, but
   the Arakan kings" (a reference to the ancient Rakhine empire). Forging
   a single national identity from these disparate ethnic and religious
   groups will be a challenge for any Burmese government. Already,
   disunity may have harmed the prospects for democratic change. "Where
   were the ethnic armies?" asked one resident of Yangon, plaintively, of
   the uprising against the junta in September. "If the Shan and Kachin
   had come, we might have got somewhere." Perhaps, like the Rakhine and
   Muslims, they felt it was not their fight.


   A boom in panda production is good for both bears and business 

                                                             Imaginechina

                                Imaginechina

   LU LU paces up and down in a small concrete enclosure, showing no
   interest in a video he can see just outside his pen. He may have been
   excited by the panda pornography the first time he watched it, but he
   certainly isn't now. It probably doesn't help that the soundtrack is
   malfunctioning. Pandas like the noise and smell of sex much more than
   the images.

   Still, Lu Lu's keepers at the panda research centre at Wolong in
   Sichuan province, set among misty mountains covered in bamboo,
   rhododendrons and fir trees, believe that adult panda movies may have
   helped the conception of his daughter, Ying Ying, last year. One of a
   pair given by the Chinese leadership to celebrate the 10th anniversary
   of Hong Kong's handover from Britain to the communist mainland, she is
   now a star attraction at a theme park in the territory, and a symbol
   of new hope for China's panda population.

   China's record of protecting its rare species has been desultory. In
   the world's first extinction of a large vertebrate for half a century,
   the Yangzi river dolphin was recently declared to have been wiped out
   (notwithstanding a reported sighting in August 2007). The South China
   tiger is close to disappearing in the wild (official claims in October
   of the first wild sighting in more than 30 years have been widely
   derided in China as false).

   Pandas might have expected to get better treatment. With their winning
   combination of scarcity and cuddliness, they are a national symbol, a
   powerful instrument of foreign policy and a potent brand. Empress Wu
   of the Tang dynasty gave pandas to Japan in the 7th century. Mao
   Zedong's gift of Ling Ling and Hsing Hsing to President Richard Nixon
   in 1972 broke the ice between the two cold war rivals and gave birth
   to the term "panda diplomacy".

   Yet in the 1980s there were fears of imminent extinction, and much
   debate about why. At first many said the panda was an evolutionary
   dead end: it had bad genes and was hopeless at sex. If that was the
   case, protecting it was going to be tough. But increasingly scientists
   have put the blame on people, who exacerbated a problem caused by the
   life-cycle of the high altitude bamboo that is the panda's staple
   diet. In the 1980s, it burst into flower and died, as it does every 30
   to 80 years; but human activity had deprived the pandas of access to
   lower altitude species that would once have served as a back-up.

   Since then, China has begun to tackle the problems of both wild and
   captive populations. The captive panda breeding programme has
   undergone a remarkable transformation. Long-held beliefs about the
   animal's reproductive capacities have been shattered. No longer are
   desperate keepers feeding Viagra to underperforming males (that did
   not work anyway). Researchers have given up ideas of cloning them.
   Good old-fashioned sex is now doing the trick, accounting for some 80%
   of births at Wolong. That's thanks to better habitats (larger areas
   help), better nutrition (more fresh bamboo) and new techniques for
   assessing when the female is in heat (only three or four days a year).

   In 2006 Wolong had 17 cubs and Chengdu, capital of Sichuan and
   location of the other main panda-breeding centre, had 12--record crops
   for both institutions. As a result, a new problem has emerged:
   overcrowding. Wolong's new-born panda cubs lie in rows in bassinets,
   as in a maternity hospital. Last year some of the younger pandas fell
   sick, possibly because disease spreads easily between animals in close
   proximity. Wolong officials say all recovered. But the China Daily, a
   state-controlled newspaper, quoted an unnamed expert as saying that
   two died after a disease outbreak this year. Wolong is building new
   quarters farther away to scatter the captives more widely. It aims to
   keep births to around a dozen a year.

   Life for wild pandas has been improving too, partly by accident. In
   1998 floods along the Yangzi left thousands of people dead and
   millions homeless. Logging, which deprives river banks of
   water-absorbing tree cover, was blamed for exacerbating the disaster.
   The government banned tree-felling across a wide area, including much
   of the pandas' habitat.

   Counting wild panda numbers is a difficult and controversial science,
   relying on estimates based on examination of droppings. The third and
   latest government survey, conducted between 1999 and 2003, put the
   population at 1,596. This was up from 1,114 in 1988 but was still
   short of the 2,459 pandas counted a decade earlier.

   Given improvements in survey methods, experts warn against drawing
   firm conclusions from comparisons of the three sets of results. Many
   believe, however, that numbers in the wild are on the rise. Hu Jingchu
   of China West Normal University says there may be more than 2,000 now.
   Some researchers believe there may be considerably more. In 2006
   Chinese and British scientists led by Michael Bruford of Cardiff
   University and Wei Fuwen of the Chinese Academy of Sciences published
   research on droppings found at Wanglang reserve in Sichuan. They
   concluded that there were 66 pandas living in that area, more than
   twice as many as the 2003 census suggested, implying a total wild
   panda population of 2,500-3,000.

   Panda branding

   Flush with pandas, Wolong is now experimenting with ways of releasing
   them into the wild. A male was set free in 2006. It was injured,
   apparently by another panda, re-released, and later found dead.
   Experts believe it fell off a tree during a fight. Another panda is
   likely to be released in the coming year, this time a female (thought
   less likely to get into trouble). The hope is that pandas can be
   released into small isolated wild populations that are in danger of
   being weakened by in-breeding.

   In another eight to ten years, says Li Desheng of the Wolong reserve,
   China should have around 300 captive pandas of sufficient genetic
   diversity to ensure the indefinite survival of the species (there are
   now about 220). Efforts are now being made to identify the genetic
   make-up of the captives to ensure the best possible mating matches.
   Artificial insemination will still sometimes be necessary, but better
   and safer ways of doing this are being developed. The process normally
   involves the use of general anaesthetic, which is risky. Hong Kong's
   Ocean Park is working on a technique for training males to provide
   semen samples while wide awake.

   More pandas do not bring down the price for foreign zoos, though,
   because China controls the supply. Since the height of the bamboo
   crisis in 1984, China has ceased handing out pandas free as a gesture
   of friendship to other countries. Western zoos now have to pay $1m per
   pair annually (plus another $600,000 if a cub is born) to keep them on
   what is normally a 10-year loan. Favoured countries may get better
   deals. Thailand's Chiang Mai Zoo is an exception, having secured a
   pair in 2003 for $250,000 a year, to the chagrin of its Western
   counterparts.

   The money is still very useful. The number of panda reserves has
   increased to more than 60 from 13 in the early 1990s, with the area
   covered roughly tripling from 6,000 sq km in the same period. Hiring
   and training staff, replanting forest and bamboo and moving farmers
   away from panda habitats is costly. So too is breeding and looking
   after the captive population.

   Sichuan province is increasingly keen to cash in on its
   black-and-white gold dust and has plans to tighten its hold over the
   brand (two other provinces, Shaanxi and Gansu, also have wild pandas,
   but considerably fewer). In 2006 the Sichuan Panda Strategic Planning
   Office was established. The provincial legislature adopted a five year
   economic plan calling for a "panda brand strategy" aimed at boosting
   the revenues of Sichuan's leading companies. Draft measures are said
   to call for panda-branded goods and services to contribute 5% of
   Sichuan's GDP growth in 2010 and 15% by 2020. The idea is for these to
   use a common panda logo.

   Tourism will be the driving force. Having gained some respite thanks
   to better protection of reserves from loggers, farmers and hunters,
   pandas now face an onslaught from the country's fast-growing middle
   classes in search of new leisure destinations. To help tour buses, the
   winding narrow road up to Wolong is being widened and straightened
   (the boom of dynamite echoes up the gorge whose peaks are home to
   rarely seen wild pandas). Tourist numbers to Wolong are likely to rise
   from 60,000 to 180,000.

   The Wolong reserve has taken a 20% share in a local state-controlled
   tourism company; which raises questions of whether the pandas' and the
   tourism industry's interests are perfectly aligned. Experts disagree.
   Zhang Hemin, Wolong's director, argues that pandas are not as afraid
   of human beings as is generally believed. They have even been known,
   he says, to cross roads and wander into urban areas (though few of
   Wolong's panda experts have seen one in the wild). Others say human
   noises and smells scare pandas, even at a distance. The Sichuan
   government says it is promoting "eco-tourism", but Fan Zhiyong of WWF,
   a conservation group (and a big contributor to panda conservation in
   China), is sceptical. "I sometimes ask, what is eco-tourism? Nobody
   can give me good answers," he says.


   A vote to abolish the monarchy gives Nepal a better, but not certain,
   hope of peace

   IN CLEAR wintry light, shining on the snowy tops of the distant
   Himalayas, a few hundred Hindu ascetics and others gathered in a
   Kathmandu park on January 7th to protest against the impending
   abolition of Nepal's 240-year-old monarchy. It was consigned to
   oblivion on December 23rd, in an almost unanimous vote of the
   country's parliament. This was momentous--even if the vote left it for
   the next assembly, due to be elected in April, to confirm the
   sentence. Yet, apart from the one small protest, which ended after
   some gentle placard-waving, there has been no whisper of public
   demurral.

   One explanation for this docility is that most Nepalis agree with
   parliament. Few modern monarchs have blundered so royally as Nepal's
   incumbent, King Gyanendra, who seized absolute power in 2005 and was
   forced by mass protests to return it the following year. He is also
   popularly believed--without evidence--to have been involved in the
   murder of his brother, the previous king, in 2001. Many Nepalis seem
   ambivalent about kings in general; but almost all want to see the back
   of this one.

   There is, however, another, less positive, explanation for the public
   apathy about the monarchy's future. After a year of quarrelsome and
   ineffective government--including two cancelled elections--many
   Nepalis doubt that their leaders will deliver what they promise. The
   government of Girija Prasad Koirala, an octogenarian four-time prime
   minister, is charged above all with bringing a lasting end to a nasty
   decade-long civil war, for which elections are considered crucial.

   The looming poll, to produce an assembly that will rewrite Nepal's
   constitution, was last due in November. It was postponed when Maoists,
   one side in the inconclusive civil war, withdrew from the government.
   They reasonably feared electoral defeat. That would have been a
   demoralising blow for their cadres, including some 23,000 former
   combatants, languishing in makeshift camps under UN supervision. Late
   last year the Maoists rejoined the government. The abolition of the
   monarchy was part of their price. All eight political parties that
   form the interim government promised to begin campaigning for the
   election. According to Baburam Bhattarai, the Maoists' deputy leader,
   there is "no question" of another delay.

   Leaders of the other parties agree that further delay would be
   disastrous. Yet, in private, almost all expect it. First, they say,
   the Maoists are sure to back out again. They also point to insecurity
   in the southern Terai region, home to around 40% of Nepalis. In the
   past year, 130 people have been killed there in complicated and
   worsening ethnic and caste-based violence.

   Meanwhile, Nepalis--who are among Asia's poorest--are having a
   miserable time. Annual economic growth, of about 2%, is barely keeping
   pace with the population. In a war-enfeebled state, crime is
   everywhere on the rise. In Kathmandu, a haven from much of the misery,
   people feel especially disgruntled, because their protests brought
   this government to power. Further stagnation, many feel, could lead to
   another sudden change: an army takeover--perhaps disguised behind a
   civilian faade--may be the likeliest sort.

   Indeed, the monarchist army chief, General Rookmangud Katwal, this
   week struck a jarring note. Egged on by India, which fears a Maoist
   takeover above all, he declared that no former Maoist fighter would be
   allowed to join the army. Rather feebly, Mr Koirala seconded him--to
   the irritation of the Maoists, who want all of their cadres inducted
   into a new national army. They have a point: they voluntarily ended
   the war, while in control of much of Nepal. But, loth to return to the
   jungle, the Maoists might settle for much less: army posts for a few
   hundred former insurgents, perhaps, and jobs for the rest.

   In fact, there may be no big problem that the government could not
   settle. Tribal militiamen in the Terai might accept a more modest
   bribe. But to offer such compromises, strong leadership is needed. Mr
   Koirala, as he inhales from the oxygen tank that is keeping his ailing
   body alive, needs to ponder that.


                                                                    Panos

                                   Panos

   The residents of Dharavi, allegedly Asia's biggest slum, are thriving
   in hardship 

   AROUND 6am, the squealing of copulating rats--signalling a night-long
   verminous orgy on the rooftops of Dharavi, a slum in Mumbai--gives way
   to the more cheerful sound of chirruping sparrows. Through a small
   window in Shashikant ("Shashi") Kawale's rickety shack, daylight
   seeps. It reveals a curly black head outside. Further inspection shows
   that this is attached to a man's sleeping body, on a slim metal ledge,
   12 feet above the ground.

   With maybe a million residents, crammed into a square mile of low-rise
   wood, concrete and rusted iron, Dharavi is a squeeze. And in Shashi's
   family hutment--as slum-dwellings are known in Mumbai, where half the
   city's 14m people live in one--it feels like it. As the sparrows stir,
   so do the neighbours. Through the plank-thin walls of the tiny loft
   where Shashi, a jobbing cleric-cum-social-worker, lives above his
   parents, come the sounds of people bumping and bickering.

   On one side is a family of 12 living in a 90-square-foot room--about
   half the size of an American car-parking space. On the other, eight
   people share a similar area. Night-sounds suggest they include a man
   with a painful cough, a colicky baby and an amorous couple. At least
   they can squeeze inside, unlike the man roosting behind Shashi's
   hutment--and unlike Parapa Kawale, a 22-year-old friend and neighbour,
   who had dropped by the previous evening to share a spicy bean curry.

   Parapa, a semi-skilled electrician, lived with his parents, two
   brothers, their wives and two children in a room of 48 square feet. If
   half the family members slept on their sides, they could just about
   fit. But as the only single male, Parapa felt a dreadful gooseberry.
   Like Shashi, he is a member of the local branch of the Communist Party
   of India (Marxist), which tells Dharavi's youths not to marry unless
   they can support a family. Wretched nonetheless at the nightly
   coupling around him, Parapa began sleeping in the alley outside--and
   drinking heavily.

   A month ago, explained Parapa, a strapping, beaming, Chaucerian
   fellow, he chased one of his brothers and a wife from the hutment in a
   violent, drunken rage. They fled back to the remote village in
   southern Karnataka that the family emerged from three decades before.
   Parapa then fixed a man-sized plank to the hutment wall, so that while
   his father and brother made love to their wives below, he could stay
   chastely on the shelf. Still, he sometimes sleeps outside, beside an
   open sewer, in the blissful quietude of the street.

   During a four-day stay in Dharavi, as the guest of Shashi and his
   friends, your correspondent heard many such tales: of hard times,
   facing up and getting by. The narrators were sometimes bitter or
   suspicious, but mostly friendly, almost invariably courteous, and
   occasionally, like Parapa, very funny. If poverty can seem
   dehumanising from afar--especially in much reporting on it--up close
   Dharavi, which is allegedly Asia's biggest slum, is vibrantly and
   triumphantly alive.

   Soon after 6am, in the metre-wide street outside Shashi's hutment, an
   ugly morning ritual has begun. "It's my turn! My husband needs to get
   to work!" a woman shouts, in jostling over a water tap. In Shiva
   Shakti Nagar, a slum area of dalits (former "untouchables") from rural
   Maharashtra, there is a tap for every ten houses, or roughly 100
   people. "Push off! My kids are late for school!" another woman lashes
   back.

   All along the street, water is gushing into blue plastic tanks and
   aluminium tubs, washing sticky breakfast dishes clean. It flows down
   the street in a rippling sheet. Bisecting it is an open drain, which
   gushes torrentially, flushing away the detritus of the previous day.

   From the stink of this, it includes a lot of human excrement--which
   tiny naked children, squatting with their backsides jutting over the
   torrent, are busy adding to. In fact, it is not supposed to be used
   for this purpose. The locals are instead supposed to take their turn
   at a block of 16 public latrines, serving 300 hutments (or 3,000
   people). It costs a rupee a visit--or 30 rupees (75 cents) for a
   monthly family ticket.

   Outside the men's side of the block, a line of bleary-eyed dalits are
   silently waiting. Most are still dressed for bed, in cotton shawls and
   sarongs--for custom dictates that they purge before washing.
   Wordlessly, they usher this foreigner to the front of the queue. And
   he remembers words of welcome uttered by another Dharavi Marxist, Raju
   Korde: "A guest is from God, but I'm worried that you won't like our
   toilets." Happily, the Asian-style loos are as clean as they could
   possibly be.

   At 7am the early shift begins in Dharavi's 15,000 hutment factories.
   Typically, they consist of one or two jerry-built storeys, stuffed
   with boys and men sewing cotton, melting plastic, hammering iron and
   moulding clay. Indeed, it is for its industry, not its size, that
   Dharavi is most distinctive. The clothes, pots, toys and recycled
   materials its residents produce earn them millions of dollars in
   annual exports alone. As the sun climbs over Dharavi, a rising timpani
   of metal on metal, a whirring of small machinery, indicate that the
   working-day has begun.

   Ramesh Kadam is at his desk in the Peela Bangla (Yellow Bungalow)
   tannery company. One of the oldest in Dharavi, it occupies the same
   factory, beside a stinking black creek, that Mr Kadam's grandfather
   founded in 1918. The site was chosen for its proximity to the main
   slaughterhouse of Bombay, as Mumbai was called. Handling meat and
   tanning leather are considered unclean in Hinduism, so the factory was
   built out of sight, on an island, with villagers of the lowly Koli
   fishing caste mending their nets on its shore. Indeed, much of Dharavi
   was underwater at that time. And so it is today when the monsoon
   comes, flooding the slum with black creek water and sewage.

                                                                    Panos

                                   Panos

                    Shashikant Kawale, a courteous host

   As Bombay boomed, on the back of its port and textile mills, poor
   peasants flowed in from the land. During periodic famines--including
   one in Bengal in 1943 that killed 3m people--they came in spate.
   Dharavi is where these migrants claimed--or reclaimed--a plot.
   Shashi's parents were propelled from Karnataka by a drought, arriving
   in the city with five small children in 1976. "In the village we were
   starving," says his mother, Shantabai, creator of the tasty bean
   curry. "Here, we were poor, but we could eat."

   Mr Korde's parents, landless vagrants from central Maharashtra,
   trekked in around the same time. His father died recently of
   tuberculosis, after a career spent hefting sacks of lentils in a
   factory. His mother, Leelabaiy, a pugnacious 65-year-old jangling with
   green bangles, lives with Mr Korde and his wife and two children in a
   three-room slum-house. Unlike her husband, she had some schooling, and
   retains a slightly sophisticated air. Asked why she married down, she
   lifts up seven fingers--one for each of the elder sisters who had
   first to be found a husband and dowry.

   With this history, Dharavi's population is diverse. Tamils, Andhras,
   Assamese, Biharis, Bengalis and local Maharatis; all India's peoples
   are here. Perhaps a little over half belong to India's poorest groups:
   dalits and Muslims. They tend to live semi-ghettoised, as in Shiva
   Shakti Nagar, within the same language group. Indeed, the poorer
   Dharavi's residents are, the more caste-sensitive they are likely to
   be. Mr Kadam is a dhor, of the dalit tanning caste. Yet as his
   business thrived, his family became middle class, a powerful identity.
   Last year Mr Kadam exported 25,000 leather belts to Wal-Mart in
   America. He has moved his family from Dharavi to a smart suburb of
   Mumbai. Laughing proudly, he says his teenage son refuses to visit the
   ancestral factory, which he considers dirty.

   The four children of Venkatesh Dhobi, all aged ten years and under,
   cannot shun their ancestral pool of filth. They work every day in this
   well of brown water, beside a litter-strewn railway line. They pass
   unwashed clothes into the pool, where 20 adult dhobis--of the dalit
   washer caste--soak and scrub them. With an explosive grunt to keep
   rhythmic time--a sound not unlike that emitted by Japanese Noh theatre
   actors--together they thwack the heavy sopping clothes onto smooth
   stones. The children then strew them between the railway tracks to
   dry.

   They are the fifth generation of Dhobis to work at this pool. The
   first, says Mr Dhobi, was his great-grandmother, who arrived from
   Mehaboob Nagar, in Andhra Pradesh, a century ago. "For 100 years, we
   have served this city," says Mr Dhobi, a short 35-year-old with the
   torso of an underpants model. And yet their rural roots have survived.
   All the dhobis in the pool--which is called Dhobi Ghat--are from
   Mehaboob Nagar. Aged 14, Mr Dhobi was married there to a local girl.
   The big changes of the past century, in his view, seem to be that
   Dhobi Ghat has got much dirtier and people send fewer clothes to be
   washed in it. India's swelling middle class--people like Mr
   Kadam--prefer washing-machines. Together, Mr Dhobi, his wife and four
   children earn less than 200 rupees a day.

   Dharavi's diversity can be a problem. In 1992 communal rioting swept
   Bombay, sparking battles in the slum between Hindus and Muslims.
   Around 200 people were killed. But multi-culturalism is also a
   blessing. Unlike the city's more homogeneous shanties--including a
   rusty sprawl of 300,000 mostly Maharatis along the runways of the
   city's airport--Dharavi is too fractured, and massive, to be claimed
   as a vote-bank by any gangster-politician.

   But the slum has known gangsters. In the 1970s a godfather of the
   Bombay mafia, Vardarajan Mudaliyar, more or less ruled it. Using the
   slum's large Tamil community--his own--as a base, he ran moonshine and
   prostitution rackets. He also claimed ownership over thousands of
   illegal hutments, and extracted rents from their occupants. So did his
   gangster rivals. In those days, Dharavi was dangerous.

   It has become safer for two main reasons. One is that in 1976 the
   state government gave the slum-dwellers limited rights over their
   hutments. They were recognised as "identified encroachers", a status
   guaranteeing compensation in the event that the government bulldozed
   their shanties. In return, the government began collecting peppercorn
   rents--currently around 100 rupees a month for each hutment--on the
   encroached land. It also started supplying Dharavi with mains water
   and power, which the gangsters hitherto had stolen from the city and
   sold in the slum. This step put the slumlords out of business, and
   started a modest property boom. Today, tiny hutments in Dharavi are
   sold, without title, for 500,000 rupees.

   Not all Dharavi is benefiting. Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, a huddle of
   hutments behind Mr Kadam's tannery, still has almost no mains power or
   water. In a shack cut into a bank of rubbish, overlooking Mumbai's
   plush Bandra Kurla business district, Karnla Ishwar, an aged widow and
   day-labourer, describes the cost of this. She buys water by the bucket
   an arduous ten-minute walk away. She buys electricity, at 100 rupees
   per appliance per month (plus a 500-rupee deposit), from a neighbour.

   But Ms Ishwar is unlucky. With reliable power and water, many of
   Dharavi's residents have been able to start businesses inside the
   slum. In this they had a great advantage--the other main reason for
   the slum's rise. As Bombay expanded, so Dharavi became the heart of
   India's commercial capital. Indeed, in a city of notoriously rotten
   infrastructure, the slum is a transport hub. It is sandwiched between
   Mumbai's two main railway lines and ringed by six stations. In
   addition, Dharavi's hutment industrialists enjoy the competitive
   advantages of slum-life: cheap labour and an environment where
   government inspectors fear to tread.

   Mr Korde, a portly 40-year-old, has seized this opportunity. The son
   of an unlettered vagrant, he has a business degree from Mumbai
   University and several small companies: a mobile-phone shop, a
   printing business, also a share in a co-operative bank. He reckons to
   earn 25,000 rupees a month. A decade ago, he bought his slum-house, on
   the western edge of Dharavi, for 450,000 rupees. Its value has almost
   doubled. "I am a Marxist and also an entrepreneur," he says, a trifle
   defensively, in the nearby office of the Communist Party, seated
   beneath colourful portraits of Stalin, Lenin, Engels and Marx.

                                                                    Panos

                                   Panos

                     Venkatesh Dhobi, swamped with work

   An evening stroll through Dharavi with Mr Korde, a well-liked local,
   is inspiring. Think 19th-century boom-time Brooklyn. In
   fluorescent-strip-lit shops, in snatched exchanges in the pedestrian
   crush, as a hookah is passed around a tea-stall, again and again, the
   stories are the same. Everyone is working hard and everyone is moving
   up. All Mr Korde's friends--or their fathers--arrived in Dharavi much
   poorer than they are now. Most own at least one business. Some of
   these slum-dwellers employ several hundred people.

   Aftab Khan is typical. A tailor with a trim moustache, and scholarly
   wire-rimmed spectacles, he arrived from Uttar Pradesh (UP) 20 years
   ago, with little more than a needle. He now employs a dozen
   youths--all recruited in his native village--to turn out 150 items of
   children's clothing a day. In workhouse fashion, they eat and sleep
   where they labour, in the upper two floors of a hutment. Reachable
   only by a ladder and rope, this resembles nothing so much as a
   tree-house with sewing-machines. Yet for their drudgery, the
   apprentices earn 200 rupees a day--about four times a rural wage in
   UP.

   The evening is darkening. And beside a barrow heaped with bright
   orange vermicelli--a sticky fibre eaten during the Muslim festival of
   eid--Mr Korde introduces a local celebrity. He calls himself Raja
   Bhai, or King Brother. A handsome Bihari, and comic, Raja Bhai has in
   15 years built a garment business employing 200 people. His success is
   impressive. Yet it has left him exposed to the predators of the
   informal economy: rent-seeking officials. To protect himself, he is
   now launching a second career, in politics.

   In Dharavi, Raja Bhai is looking for a ticket with the Congress party,
   for the next municipal, or even state, election. Meanwhile he is
   campaigning for the Lok Jan Shakti party, a champion of low-caste
   Biharis, in his native state. Either way, he is sure he will soon get
   elected office--and with it the clout he will need to drive away the
   shake-down merchants.

   For thousands of men like these, Dharavi is a wonderful opportunity.
   But for millions of Mumbaikers, it represents a cost. Their city,
   South Asia's biggest, is choking. Its infrastructure is a crumbling
   disaster. And yet over the next decade, the UN says the population of
   Mumbai will almost double, making it the world's second-biggest city
   after Tokyo. Massive urban redevelopment is required--starting with
   Dharavi, at the city's heart. By one estimate, the slum's land alone
   represents $10 billion in dead capital.

   For a decade, the state government has tried coaxing the slum-dwellers
   to let it bulldoze their hutments and build high-rise apartments
   instead. Each dispossessed family is entitled to a flat of 225 square
   feet. After 30 years, they will be allowed to sell it. But only a few
   have accepted this offer. So now the government is trying to enforce
   it. In August it put the bulldozing and redevelopment of Dharavi, in
   six parcels, out to tender. The work was due to begin this year. But
   it has been stalled by bad press nationally and local protests,
   organised by Mr Korde.

   For small businessmen like him, the redevelopment plan is a nightmare.
   The slum's hutment factories, havens from tax and regulation, would be
   destroyed. In their place would be purpose-built workshops, for rent
   at commercial rates. "I will be finished," says Mr Khan, the scholarly
   looking tailor. For poorer residents, like Ms Ishwar, the widow living
   in rubbish-blown misery, the story would be different. Her new
   apartment, unlike her current hovel, would be fit for human
   habitation. If she, or rather her relatives, sold it, they would be
   rich. Either way, Mr Korde admits, the scheme will eventually happen.

                                                                  Eyevine

                                  Eyevine

                  Business is piling up for the recyclers

   So, these may be the last days for Dharavi. If so, much that is
   wretched will be lost. And, who knows, maybe something better will
   arise. Most of the slum-dwellers doubt this. And a few high-rise
   blocks, scattered across the slum, do not inspire great hope. Many are
   half-built and slowly mildewing. Lots of their residents, it is said,
   have already sold up illegally, and moved back to the slums, seeking
   things that town-planners cannot provide: a sense of history,
   community and freedom. Dharavi has these, as well as many horrible
   problems. It is organic and miraculously harmonious. It is intensely
   human. Unlike the random tower-blocks, Dharavi makes sense.

   It is 2am, and a violent drumming erupts outside Mr Korde's house.
   Booming in a six-beat rhythm, it ends in a crashing roll. This is
   repeated, again and again, rising as the drummers approach. The sound
   is thunderous. A few huge rats rush by the window, fleeing the noise
   like driven pheasants. And suddenly the drummers appear, parading
   through the slum, dragging on wheels a huge statue of Durga--a Hindu
   goddess, a multi-limbed and multi-coloured giantess, astride a tiger.

   On the drum-roll, the processors pause, and golden flares explode
   either side of the statue. In every doorway, along the alley,
   slum-dwellers are watching in silence. It is a thrilling and
   dream-like sight. This is apparently quite normal in Dharavi.


   Like father, like son


   IN JAPAN'S dynastic politics, even foreign policy is a family
   business. The most recent prime minister, Shinzo Abe, was the grandson
   of one prime minister; the incumbent, Yasuo Fukuda, is the first prime
   minister to follow his father's footsteps into office.

   The hawkish Mr Abe indulged in occasional revisionism over Japan's
   rapine wartime past and espoused a sweeping "arc of freedom and
   prosperity" that was supposed to anchor Japan in a Eurasian community
   of democratic nations but was in practice a not-particularly-subtle
   attempt to throw a cordon around a rising China. Though the arc
   languishes as official policy on the foreign ministry's [4]website, it
   has in practice been abandoned by Mr Abe's successor.

   Thirty years ago Mr Fukuda senior went to Manila and promised
   South-East Asia that Japan had forever renounced aggression against
   its neighbours, and would do everything to build confidence and mutual
   respect. This became known as the Fukuda doctrine. In the practice of
   it, Mr Fukuda pre opened diplomatic relations with China. Now, Mr
   Fukuda fils is proving a chip off the old block.

   Late last month at the 16-country East Asia Summit in Singapore, the
   younger Mr Fukuda looked singularly at ease schmoozing with Asia's
   leaders, most of whom say they value discretion over confrontation. In
   effect, he assured them that the Fukuda doctrine was alive and well.
   Though there is no question of Japan abandoning its 60-year alliance
   with the United States (and neighbours would no doubt be horrified if
   it did), Mr Fukuda assured them that he would follow a more
   "Asia-focused" policy.

   China, in particular, has taken notice. Its leaders have not forgotten
   the father, and the stripling 71-year-old son will get a warm welcome
   on a first official trip to Beijing in late December or early January.
   Where Mr Abe used bluntly to bring up China's human-rights record and
   its lack of military transparency, people who know Mr Fukuda say that
   there is no question of his raising such indelicate issues with the
   Chinese. As an early seasonal gift, his government last month refused
   to meet the Dalai Lama, who was on a visit to Japan, explaining that
   the Tibetan leader was not "important" enough.

   The upshot is that traditionally strained relations between Japan and
   China look set for a sharp improvement. President Hu Jintao will visit
   Japan in the spring, and is likely to be invited as a guest to the G8
   summit to be held in early July in Hokkaido, in northern Japan.
   Climate change will top the summit's agenda, and China's pollution
   record will draw flak, as will its human-rights record soon after,
   during Beijing's Olympics. Mr Hu will look to Mr Fukuda--if he is
   indeed still prime minister--to provide friendly covering fire on both
   counts. The last thing China wants to do in the coming months is
   undermine Japan's prime minister, and this will help Mr Fukuda, with a
   minimum of effort, to rise above his domestic problems and look every
   inch the statesman.


   Economic advance is not winning all that many hearts and minds

   IT WAS an odd remark to come from a Chinese government official.
   Instead of flaunting the 13.2% growth that his autonomous region
   reportedly achieved in 2006, he was openly contemptuous of the
   calculations: "The officials tell us what incomes Beijing wants us to
   report and then we just have to report those numbers, even though
   there are farmers earning far less." Worse, he has views on the limits
   of Chinese sovereignty. "Highest this in China, highest that in
   China," he says, in a caustic imitation of Chinese tour guides.
   "This," he declares, a hand sweeping out towards the mountain-circled
   horizon, "is not China. This is Tibet."

   He may work for the Chinese government, but he is an ethnic Tibetan
   and, like many others, he is intransigently opposed to all things
   Chinese. His motives in working for the party are purely mercenary:
   "It's the highest paying job I can get." He also admits that he would
   like to visit India to see the Dalai Lama, Tibet's exiled spiritual
   leader. But, for now, he must earn money.

   His is a common tale in modern Tibet: even as they take advantage of
   some of the economic opportunities Chinese rule has brought, many
   Tibetans remain staunchly proud of their own culture. This belies
   Chinese propaganda portraying supporters of the Dalai Lama and Tibetan
   separatism as a dwindling minority.

   On the other hand, the official's story does not quite fit the image
   of modern Tibet fostered by China's critics. In their version,
   economic growth benefits only ethnic Han Chinese. China embarked in
   2000 on a drive to accelerate development in its backward western
   regions, including Tibet. Since then, and especially since last year
   when a railway to Lhasa was completed, pessimists have been mourning
   in advance the death of Tibetans' unique Buddhist culture and
   identity.

   Economic growth, it was argued, would bring a flood of Han Chinese
   immigrants, who would "Hanify" Tibet and murder its culture. But just
   as that culture survived China's invasion in 1950, the flight of the
   Dalai Lama in 1959 and the devastation of the Cultural Revolution in
   the 1960s and 1970s, so it is now resisting the subtler ravages
   wrought by economic progress.

   China's western development policy in part reflects the government's
   belief that economic growth would quench demands for greater political
   liberty. If Tibetans grew richer, surely they would become friendlier
   to life under Chinese rule? And, indeed, some Tibetans are sharing the
   new wealth. Lhasa has become a magnet for Tibetans from across the
   plateau, drawn by the opportunities created there by the booming
   tourist industry for guides, vendors and hotel workers. Scholarships
   take Tibetan students to universities in Beijing and Shanghai.

   Even outside Lhasa, some Tibetans acknowledge that Chinese economic
   policies have brought benefits. In the northern town of Nagqu, for
   example, nomadic herders now have houses to shelter them from the icy
   winter, thanks to economic progress and government aid. Recognising
   Tibetan poverty, the government recently announced that it would offer
   aid to more than 230,000 farmers and herdsmen. The statistics are
   fudged and many Tibetans are still desperately poor, but on the whole
   they are better off than they once were.

   Tibetan tradition has not survived unscathed. Some young people are
   abandoning nomadic life for lucrative urban jobs. Unworldly lamas now
   boast Nike caps. As one bitter gentleman puts it, "there are those who
   have sold out to the Chinese."

   But if the true index of a culture's vitality is its adherence to its
   language, historical memory and religious traditions, Tibetan culture
   shows itself durable. Loyalty to the Dalai Lama, the Tibetan language
   and a view of history in which the Chinese are illegitimate invaders
   will not die soon. Each year, thousands sneak across the border and
   receive "religious and cultural training" from the Dalai Lama's
   government-in-exile. Those who return pass the lessons to their
   compatriots.

   Many of those who do not risk the journey to India work hard at
   preserving their Tibetan heritage. One mother says that she insists
   that her daughter learn Tibetan, and that many others do the same.
   "Chinese is important for work but Tibetan is who we are. If you come
   back to Lhasa in ten years, you'll see many more people speaking
   Chinese. But they would still be Tibetan."

   Such ideas pose no immediate security threat to China. But their
   persistence in the face of genuine danger highlights the limitations
   of Chinese rule. China has, through force, won reluctant submission.
   Acceptance, however, cannot be bought.


   Confusion over who calls the shots in Beijing. But not in Hong Kong


   AFTER meeting China's president, Hu Jintao, last month, America's
   defence secretary, Robert Gates, left Beijing with promises of greater
   co-operation between the two armies, including the installation of a
   hotline. But China's top brass is not making it easy to fulfil Mr Hu's
   hopes of growing friendship. A fortnight later it unexpectedly
   cancelled a Thanksgiving Day port call in Hong Kong by Kitty Hawk, an
   American aircraft-carrier, and several other vessels.

   The incident has again raised questions about how much China's army
   tells its civilian leaders. In January the foreign ministry was caught
   off-guard by the army's test of an anti-satellite weapon. This
   recalled the confusion in 2001 after an American spy plane had
   collided with a Chinese fighter.

   Similar confusion appears to have broken out again. The White House
   said China's foreign minister, Yang Jiechi, had told George Bush that
   the Kitty Hawk incident had been a "misunderstanding". A
   foreign-ministry spokesman in Beijing soon denied this. But he gave no
   explanation. On December 4th the foreign ministry returned to the
   fray, expressing "grave concern" over the Kitty Hawk's decision to
   sail back to Japan through the Taiwan Strait, purportedly because of
   the weather. American carriers normally avoid the strait in deference
   to China's sensitivities.

   China's military or civilian officials had reasons to express
   displeasure with America: a high-profile meeting in October between
   President Bush and the Dalai Lama; or the Pentagon's plans to help
   Taiwan upgrade its missile defences. They may also have wanted to keep
   prying American eyes away from big wargames China was staging in the
   region.

   Or maybe they just wanted to teach America who is in charge in Hong
   Kong these days. Hong Kong's democrats need no reminding of this.
   Their champion, Anson Chan, a former top civil servant, won a
   by-election on December 2nd in a fiercely contested race with a
   Beijing-backed candidate, Regina Ip. Mrs Chan's campaign platform
   called for full democracy in Hong Kong in 2012. But voters know this
   is a pipedream. As China sees it, sovereignty over Hong Kong includes
   the right to rig elections as well as to keep American warships
   guessing.


   As foreign troops become more efficient, government is still the
   problem

                                                                      Pfc

                                    Pfc


   THEY came on foot, by lorry and by helicopter to the great tents at
   the junction of two dry river beds at Charbaran. Bearded men whirled
   rapturously to the sound of a drumbeat, kicking up a cloud of fine
   dust over the American soldiers around them.

   This shura, or tribal council, was the culmination of Operation Attal,
   designed to clear the Taliban from three districts in Paktika, a
   troubled province bordering Pakistan. Three months earlier Charbaran's
   district centre--a government office-cum-police station--had been
   torched by the Taliban and the area was said to be a training ground
   for the insurgents. Now it has been rebuilt with stout sandbagged
   fortifications and artillery for protection.

   In a bloody year that has seen more Western soldiers killed than at
   any time since they toppled the Taliban in 2001, Operation Attal,
   which lasted three weeks, was uneventful. Hardly a shot was fired as
   the Taliban melted away before thousands of Afghan and American
   soldiers. But for the Americans success these days is measured less by
   the number of Taliban killed, and more by the number of Afghans who
   overcome their loyalty to the Taliban, or fear of them, to attend such
   a meeting. The Americans had been hoping for 200 guests; about 1,500
   people came. It was billed as an Afghan reconciliation between local
   tribes and the central government. The choreography, however, was all
   American: American soldiers rebuilt the district centre, erected the
   tents, bulldozed new roads, brought the dignitaries by helicopter and
   even supplied a portrait of President Hamid Karzai.

   One elder complained about the broken promises of development, and
   about the Americans surrounding them with armoured Humvees and roaring
   jets. He also wanted to get the tribe's confiscated weapons back. The
   36-year-old governor, Akram Khapalwak, was having none of it. He
   demanded to know why the area's Kharoti tribe had allowed the
   destruction of the district centre and the theft of government
   vehicles. What was the point in building schools when teachers were
   being intimidated? He said $1m had been given to the Kharoti for
   schools, clinics and water projects, but there was little to show for
   it. "You thieves," said the governor.

   The recriminations over, lunch was served. The elders later agreed to
   provide 30 of their sons for the Afghan police force: a hopeful sign
   that the tribesmen were coming over to the government's side.

   Operation Attal was remarkable for another reason. It was the first
   big operation planned and executed by the Afghan National Army, with
   more than 5,000 Afghan soldiers supported by about 400 Americans from
   the 1-503rd airborne infantry regiment. In the operations centre near
   Gardez, American officers sat in the second row, behind Afghan staff
   officers.

   It was Afghan forces who searched homes while the Americans covered
   their backs. And behind the front-line troops followed lorry-loads of
   humanitarian supplies. The Americans delivered carpets and sound
   systems for the mosques; Korans, food, clothes and blankets against
   the onset of winter; hand-cranked radios to hear government
   broadcasts; doctors and veterinary surgeons. None of this is
   guaranteed to win support, but it helps.

   American soldiers are still involved in a lot of shooting,
   particularly along the border with Pakistan. Indeed, across the
   country, violence has inexorably got worse. This year has seen a
   record number of suicide-bombings as well as a 20% increase in Taliban
   attacks, according to the United Nations. The insurgency has spread
   from the badlands along the frontier with Pakistan to much of the
   country's Pushtu-speaking belt, the Taliban's support base. Kabul is a
   regular target. Although far more American soldiers have been killed
   in Iraq, many more bombs fall in Afghanistan.

   The Taliban can bomb, ambush and intimidate, but cannot conquer
   territory held by Western forces. The question is whether they can
   drain NATO's will to stay on. As one senior Western diplomat admits:
   "Failure is an option."

   Non-kinetic energy

   The mistakes of the past six years of fighting in
   Afghanistan--principally the Americans' decision to have only a "light
   footprint" and the costly diversion into Iraq--have changed the
   mindset of American military commanders. They now regard "kinetic"
   actions (ie, fighting) as a distraction, a preliminary "shaping"
   operation at best. "The decisive operation is non-kinetic," says
   Colonel Martin Schweitzer, commander of Task Force Fury, responsible
   for six south-eastern provinces. His focus is training Afghan forces,
   building roads, schools and clinics and, above all, getting the
   government to "start addressing the needs of the people".

   He has schooled himself in the ways of Pushtunwali, the Pushtun tribal
   code of honour, and has its main tenets on his wall. Next door to his
   office, a group of anthropologists and sociologists known as the
   "human-terrain team" provides him with valuable intelligence, not on
   the enemy but on the society in which they mingle. Colonel Schweitzer
   says what he needs is not more troops but more "non-uniformed
   instruments of power: diplomatic, information and economic",
   especially agronomists and water engineers.

   The colonel reckons that of the 92 districts in his area, the number
   rejecting the Taliban has grown from 19 to 58 in less than a year. The
   change is palpable around his own headquarters at Forward Operating
   Base Salerno, outside the city of Khost. Until last year it used to be
   attacked so often that soldiers called it "Rocket City". No longer.
   Rockets are now a rarity, wild potshots fired from Pakistan. Khost's
   progress against the tide of violence is heartening, especially since
   it lies across the frontier from North Waziristan, the main haven for
   the Taliban and al-Qaeda in Pakistan.

   The Americans say the success is all due to the governor, Arsala
   Jamal. "He is phenomenal. The governor is the centrepiece. We take
   directives from him," says Lieutenant-Colonel Scott Custer (descended
   from George Armstrong Custer, the cavalry officer who lost the battle
   of Little Bighorn) of the 2-321st Airborne Field Artillery Regiment,
   in charge of Khost. The name of his strategy says it all: "Protect the
   Quarterback" (a reference to the vital playmaker in American football
   who needs shielding by his team). It involves creating concentric
   circles of security around Khost of Afghan police and army, with the
   Americans on the outer ring.

                                                                      Pfc
                                                                      Pfc

                                               Custer and his quarterback

   With better security, and with the funds provided by the American
   army, Governor Jamal is able to show progress. "The whole game is
   about confidence-building," he says. "I will never change the minds of
   the bad guys, and the good guys will stay with me. Better security
   builds the confidence of people in the middle."

   The Taliban hate him as much as the Americans love him.
   Suicide-bombers have tried to kill him at least four times since he
   was appointed as governor last year. One of his would-be killers was a
   14-year-old boy from Pakistan who was captured and pardoned.

   Judging from American intelligence intercepts, the Taliban seem
   rattled. "There is a big problem now," one Talib is heard to say.
   "Half [of the people] are with us and the other half are against us."
   Another wrestles with self-doubt: "I hope God directs me in the right
   path. I am not sure if I should do this against my own Afghans. There
   is no point in fighting. Who is the enemy here? We don't have an
   enemy."

   Senior British officers, who until recently regarded themselves as
   experts in counter-insurgency, marvel at the speed with which the
   American army is learning imperial policing. "It is a case of the son
   surpassing the father," says one British officer. Similar changes are
   taking place in the British-controlled province of Helmand. Afghan
   troops have been at the fore of a joint operation with British and
   American forces that retook Musa Qala, the only sizeable town
   controlled by the Taliban, on December 11th.

   The operation, which involved the defection of one Taliban commander,
   will cheer the British after a year of intense but inconclusive
   fighting. Yet the army now finds itself pretty much back to where it
   was in 2006: parcelled out across Helmand's districts, with exposed
   supply lines. The British may have more soldiers, and their outpost
   may be better protected. But the question is whether Afghan forces are
   able to hold the ground on their own. One important objective in
   Helmand has been to reopen the road leading to the Kajaki
   hydroelectric plant to bring up a new turbine and increase the
   electricity supply, but that is still a distant prospect.

   In the neighbouring province of Kandahar, Canadian forces have also
   struggled time and again to recapture the same ground. Fighting the
   Taliban, they quip, is the military equivalent of "mowing the lawn".
   In contrast with the American sector farther east, where troops are
   fighting right up to the border with Pakistan, the British and
   Canadians do not have enough forces to secure their section of the
   frontier, and have abandoned a large swathe of the south to the
   Taliban.

   This year has seen a mini-surge of Western forces, notably from
   America, Britain, Poland and Denmark. Germany and the Netherlands have
   decided to stay in Afghanistan, averting a NATO split. There have been
   successes too, notably the killing of scores of insurgent commanders.
   According to the UN, this has forced the Taliban to appoint Pakistanis
   to replace some of them. But the Taliban have an inexhaustible supply
   of recruits, and a haven in Pakistan in which to organise. They are
   reinforced by foreign fighters linked to al-Qaeda, including Chechens,
   Uzbeks and Turks, who are highly motivated and surprisingly well
   equipped. As the Taliban have been pressed in one area, they have
   moved to cause mayhem elsewhere.

   The Western effort is fragmented. Even close military allies such as
   Britain and America have had rows about tactics. There are two
   separate but overlapping commands, NATO's International Security
   Assistance Force (ISAF) and America's Combined Joint Task Force 82.
   Most training is conducted by another American command. However,
   co-ordination has improved with the appointment of an American,
   General Dan McNeill, to head ISAF. The old distinction between
   "stabilisation", done by NATO, and "counter-terrorism", done by
   America, is blurring.

   On the ground, though, each contingent is fighting its own separate
   war and promoting its separate vision of reconstruction. The fact that
   most countries rotate their units every six months or so makes
   continuity difficult. Americans currently serve 15-month tours, a
   consequence of the acute overstretch of the American army, but it
   means that commanders have time to learn and adapt.

   The state of state-building

   The problem in Afghanistan is not so much the resurgence of the
   Taliban, but the weakness of the Afghan government. The economy has
   grown briskly in recent years, but this has only moved Afghanistan
   from being crushingly poor to extremely poor. Six million children are
   now in school, but 2m still get no education.

   Mr Karzai's government is dependent on foreign aid for about half of
   its budget. Much of the government is ineffective and often corrupt.
   One Western diplomat reckons there are just 200 competent people in
   the whole of the Afghan bureaucracy. The administration of provinces
   and districts, often the only contact between villagers and the
   government, is even more rickety. Provincial governors symbolise the
   state, but policies and budgets are controlled by ministries in Kabul.

   The political balance in Kabul has become more uncertain. The Afghan
   government is essentially a fusion of the anti-Taliban Northern
   Alliance of warlords, dominated by ethnic Tajiks, with a Pushtun head
   in the form of Mr Karzai. Not only have many of the Pushtun tribes
   risen up against the government, but members of the Northern Alliance
   have now formed a political opposition movement with royalists and
   ex-communists.

   Whether by design or by chance, the UN does not fill the vacuum in
   governance. Donors are at odds too. Britain gives most of its aid
   directly to the Afghan government, but America, by far the biggest
   donor, worries about corruption and prefers to entrust its aid
   projects to private American contractors.

   Much of the development work falls by default to army officers,
   working though civil-military groups known as "provincial
   reconstruction teams" (PRTs). Development charities such as Oxfam in
   Britain complain this runs against good practice in aid work; it
   focuses on short-term fixes rather than long-term development, results
   in vastly different levels of spending (the American PRTs are richer
   than the others) and blurs the line between soldiering and traditional
   aid work. There are many stories of armies building schools without
   teachers, and clinics without medicines. Yet imperfect as the PRT
   system may be, military commanders say they have little choice but to
   rely on them. Traditional aid workers will not, or cannot, venture
   into the more dangerous areas of the country.

   Arguably the biggest danger to the future of Afghanistan comes not
   from the external Taliban enemy but from two interconnected internal
   ones: corruption and opium. The police are too often regarded as
   predators rather than protectors. The appointment of police chiefs,
   particularly in posts along lucrative drugs-smuggling routes, is rife
   with corruption. The government and donors are attempting, with mixed
   success, to clean up the force by weeding out tarnished or unqualified
   officers, and raising police salaries to match those of the army. And
   once again, foreign soldiers are stepping in. For instance, America's
   1-503rd infantry regiment has used a former senior FBI investigator to
   arrest an Afghan commander in Paktika accused of funding the Taliban.

   The bigger source of money for the Taliban is illicit poppy
   cultivation. Afghanistan produces 92% of the world's opium-related
   drugs. This year's record crop came overwhelmingly from Helmand, as
   well as other embattled regions. The drugs trade makes up about
   one-third of Afghanistan's GDP. ISAF commanders, who had avoided
   involvement in counter-narcotics, now acknowledge that insurgents and
   drugs-smugglers operate symbiotically and must be tackled together.

   Here too, views are split. The American ambassador to Kabul, William
   Wood, is an enthusiastic supporter of aerial herbicide spraying to
   eradicate the crop. The British, in charge of overseeing the fight
   against opium, worry that this will turn the farmers against the
   Western forces. So far there has been a messy compromise: limited
   manual eradication that has been beset by corruption. It is not just
   the Taliban who benefit from opium; members of the government, even
   close relatives of Mr Karzai, are routinely accused of being drugs
   lords. In the long run, the answer lies in stability and rural
   development. In the short term, few actions would make the government
   more popular than the prosecution of some big bosses of the opium
   trade.

   The West's best weapon

   Like the Greeks, the British and the Soviets before them, America and
   its allies are discovering the old adage that Afghanistan is easy to
   invade, but difficult to control. Can they defy history? Perhaps, but
   only if they accept that a military victory is not possible and that
   they will have to stay for a long time.

   Western countries still enjoy an important asset: the support of
   ordinary Afghans who have no desire to return to the harshness of
   Taliban rule or to the civil wars of the past. Recent polls (see
   chart) show that Afghans are much more strongly in favour of foreign
   forces than Iraqis. However, growing insecurity and civilian
   casualties in air raids are eroding the West's position, especially in
   the south.

   Western opinion is just as important. Gordon Brown, Britain's prime
   minister, was right to announce on December 12th his plan for
   "Afghanisation" of the military campaign, gradually focusing more on
   mentoring and training Afghan forces and economic development. He said
   an effort would be made both locally to recruit armed village guards
   and encourage Taliban to give up their weapons, and regionally to
   improve co-operation.

   Given the shortage of Western troops, Afghanistan's best hope lies in
   expanding and improving its own forces. Afghan soldiers are respected
   both as symbols of the nation and as tough fighters; but the Afghan
   army, which will grow to 70,000 next year, needs to be greatly
   increased. For years it will need to be partnered with Western units
   able to provide close air support, transport and medical evacuations.
   It makes sense to give ISAF more of an Afghan complexion, with plans
   to appoint an Afghan general to help co-ordinate operations. The
   Afghan police will need even more money and training. Once again it is
   America that has taken on the main burden of training the police,
   while Europe's effort has been half-hearted.

   Above all the Afghan government--particularly in the provinces and
   districts--needs to be made more effective. Mr Karzai complains that
   he gets too much contradictory advice from the 40-odd allies in ISAF.
   The appointment of a strong international civil co-ordinator to
   energise the reconstruction effort, and even to give political
   direction for the military campaign, is long overdue.

   Paddy Ashdown, the British politician and former soldier who served as
   the international overseer of Bosnia, is the leading candidate to
   become the new UN chief. He should also be "double-hatted" as the NATO
   civilian representative (and perhaps also as the European envoy). Some
   worry that such a "super-envoy" would either undermine the authority
   of Mr Karzai, or be ineffective because of American predominance.
   There are risks in a foreigner meddling in Afghanistan's intricate
   tribal power game. But the bigger risk is to leave Afghanistan
   violently adrift.


   Playing panda politics with Taiwan

                                                             Imaginechina

                                Imaginechina

   IT'S the ultimate gift for the country that has everything; and China,
   well aware of the diplomatic power of a panda, hands them out
   sparingly. In 2007 Australia and Spain became the latest countries to
   get their own. Spain's pair were sped through the VIP section of
   Madrid airport on their way to the city's zoo. Australia's, offered by
   President Hu Jintao during a visit to Sydney, are expected to arrive
   at Adelaide Zoo in 2009 (for the usual fee, of course).

   The most political of all panda presents are Tuantuan and Yuanyuan
   (left). Now among Wolong's most famous attractions, the two bears were
   offered to Taiwan in 2005. Taiwan's independence-minded government
   turned them down, accusing China of using pandas to further its goal
   of taking over the island. The couple's names did not go down well
   either: tuanyuan means "reunited" in Chinese.

   There is still hope. Taiwan's main opposition party, the Kuomintang,
   may win the presidential election in 2008. The KMT is pro-panda
   (China's offer was made to the party, not directly to the Taiwanese
   government). Despite a ruling by the Council of Agriculture in 2006
   that the pandas could not be imported, Taipei's optimistic zoo has
   been busy building a panda enclosure. A rival bid has been made by a
   nearby theme park, Leofoo Village, which has already built its panda
   facilities. Sean Chuang, chairman of the company that owns Leofoo
   Village, says there is nothing wrong with the pandas' names. A KMT
   spokesman agrees.

   Meanwhile, Tuantuan and Yuanyuan wait in their misty Chinese limbo.
   And pragmatic officials in Sichuan are doing good business luring
   Taiwanese tourists to Wolong to see the pair there.


   The government and the Tigers stop pretending they have a ceasefire


   THE six-year-old ceasefire agreement between the Sri Lankan government
   and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam had long been in tatters, as
   the two sides had already resumed their 25-year-old war. On January
   2nd it was consigned to the dustbin. The government blamed a bomb
   attack on an army bus in Colombo on the Tigers, and said it would
   abrogate the truce, which had "ceased to have any meaning".

   In Oslo, Erik Solheim, the Norwegian government minister who
   negotiated the agreement, was naturally downcast. Civilians, he said,
   would suffer most, as the Norwegian-led ceasefire monitors would have
   to withdraw, leaving them even less protected.

   The government accused the Tigers of using the truce only to arm and
   recruit, and to carry out attacks against government forces and
   civilians, rather than to seek a peaceful solution to the conflict
   between the Sinhalese majority and the Tamil minority over political
   autonomy. Successive Sri Lankan governments have alleged that the
   Norwegian peace brokers had drafted the truce hastily and rammed it
   down the government's throat.

   Both sides kept accusing each other of reneging on it. The government
   charged that the Tigers had violated the truce more than 10,000 times
   since February 2002, carrying out high-profile assassinations, terror
   attacks and abductions of children. But it had itself been waging a
   no-holds-barred military campaign, liberally using aircraft and
   artillery, in which thousands were killed and over 300,000, mostly
   minority Tamils and Muslims, were displaced.

   The Tigers' reclusive and ruthless leader, Velupillai Prabhakaran,
   late last year vowed to continue the armed struggle for an independent
   "Eelam" (homeland) in the island's north and east. The group did not
   react at once to Colombo's unilateral abrogation.

   Mr Solheim feared the end of the truce will bring "a further
   escalation of violence". As it is, some 5,000 people have died in the
   past two years of "ceasefire". But he had not lost all hope.
   Negotiations would resume sooner or later. "Unfortunately," he said,
   "many people will die in the meantime."


   Forget the national interest, Japan's parties are locked in a tactical
   fight

   [3]Japan's politics

   THE saga that has brought politics in Japan to a halt is nearing its
   crisis. In July the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) won control of the
   upper house of the Diet (parliament) from the Liberal Democratic Party
   (LDP), which still controls the lower house and governs in coalition
   with New Komeito, a junior partner. Unlike counterparts in many
   democracies, Japan's upper house has formidable powers. The
   constitution never envisaged a split parliament, with the upper house
   able to veto nearly every government bill. The government could
   overrule a veto with its two-thirds' majority in the lower house. Yet
   this weapon has not been used in 50 years, and may backfire,
   particularly if the public deems its use unwarranted.

   This week the upper house began deliberating a bill passed last month
   that would send the Japanese navy back to the Indian Ocean to provide
   fuel to American-led operations in Afghanistan. Hardly central to the
   "war on terror", the mission was still the most visible proof that
   Japan was showing the flag. But it was hurriedly recalled on November
   1st, when the DPJ refused to allow an extension to its mandate.

   Internationalists in both parties are embarrassed that Japan, yet
   again, appears weak-kneed over its international responsibilities.
   Nevertheless the DPJ's leader, Ichiro Ozawa, is playing hardball. He
   vows to oppose the bill, despite dissent even within his own party.
   His predecessor as leader, Seiji Maehara, says that to rely on a
   United Nations mandate to send the army abroad, as Mr Ozawa insists
   Japan should, "is to give Russia and China power of veto over Japan's
   foreign policy."

   Now comes an intense tactical game, which Yasuo Fukuda, prime minister
   since September, must win to hang on in power. Mr Fukuda has already
   extended the Diet's current extraordinary session once, until December
   15th, so that the refuelling bill can be deliberated in the upper
   house. But that is not enough time. He might have been tempted to let
   the bill lapse. He does not believe Japan should join every
   American-led "coalition of the willing". Besides, in early November he
   held private talks with Mr Ozawa about forging a "grand coalition",
   for which he might have jettisoned the bill. Yet Mr Ozawa's complicity
   shocked his party's executive. He resigned as DPJ leader, but was
   hurriedly reinstated for lack of an alternative.

   Mr Fukuda has since been to Washington, DC, where he assured Mr Bush
   he would make every effort to send the ships back to the Indian Ocean.
   With honour at stake, the prime minister will probably extend the Diet
   session one last time, waiting for the upper house either to reject
   the refuelling bill or to sit on it for a full 60 days, which amounts
   to the same thing. He will then try to ram the bill into law using the
   coalition's supermajority, and the upper house will probably condemn
   the government with a motion of no confidence.

   Until recently, such a motion was thought dramatic enough to have the
   prime minister dissolve the government and call a general election.
   But the game is fast changing. For a start, though no fervent public
   support exists for the refuelling mission, there is no passionate
   opposition. And despite a growing defence-procurement scandal, the DPJ
   has failed to implicate LDP politicians--even Fukushiro Nukaga, now
   finance minister, to whom scandals usually stick like a faithful dog.
   Lastly, not everyone in the DPJ really wants a snap election. Though
   the party is certain to pick up seats, DPJ candidates have yet to be
   selected for many districts, and even then only a miracle would grant
   the party a lower-house victory. The odds are rising that Mr Fukuda
   might shake off the upper-house censure, explain to the country that
   he tried his best to secure co-operation, and continue as prime
   minister.

   If so, the refuelling saga will prove a mere skirmish before real
   battle is joined over next year's budget and the livelihood issues
   that ordinary Japanese care about-- at a time, Sadakazu Tanigaki, the
   LDP's policy chief, points out, of a soft economy at home and a
   darkening economic outlook abroad. The Diet's ordinary session will
   open in January, and the government must pass a budget before the
   fiscal year beginning on April 1st. Though the lower house can do that
   alone, the upper house must also approve a raft of bills required if
   the budget deficit is to be financed and government salaries and
   contracts paid.

   Again, Mr Fukuda will present himself as a model of reasonableness,
   listening to opposition demands to boost welfare and tackle regional
   inequalities. Yet meeting such demands would bust the budget. And
   there will be pressure to pass bills swiftly. Perhaps talk of a grand
   coalition will resurface. More likely, a budget clash will loom, and
   Mr Fukuda will use the supermajority once again, this time to keep the
   government running. If the public blamed him for the confrontation, Mr
   Fukuda might then feel the need to dissolve the government. Mr Fukuda
   intends to prove he can be more than a stopgap "caretaker" prime
   minister. But most lower-house politicians expect an election as early
   as April, and many have run up their campaign posters in readiness for
   a January snap election--just in case.


   The opposition pulls itself together 

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

       Lee Myung-bak looks for encouragement from Park Geun-hye's Dad


   AS BEFITS a daughter of a former president and a presidential aspirant
   herself, Park Geun-hye has a house and garden in one of Seoul's most
   expensive districts. It is not hard to find. Residents and
   petrol-station attendants helpfully point the way. Yet her party's
   leader, Lee Myung-bak, who narrowly defeated her in a primary election
   to represent the Grand National Party in this December's presidential
   election, has not visited and until last week had not telephoned.

   Mr Lee's tin ear to Ms Park and her supporters opened up dissension in
   the ranks and paved the way for Lee Hoi-chang, a former party chairman
   and twice a losing presidential candidate, to declare his candidacy
   yet again--this time as an independent. Mr Lee vowed to end the
   "sunshine policy" of aid to North Korea, thereby--it was
   thought--appealing to Ms Park's more conservative supporters.

   This year's presidential election is beginning to look a bit like the
   previous one, in 2002, which also involved divisions in the Grand
   National Party, a third candidate (who withdrew at the last minute),
   Lee Hoi-chang's candidacy--and corruption charges. This time, Lee
   Hoi-chang's advisers say Lee Myung-bak is vulnerable to questions
   about his role in a fraudulent investment scheme from which he
   allegedly benefited while others lost out. Lee Myung-bak denies the
   allegations and says he will resign if he is found to have played a
   role in the fraud, known as BBK, the name of the failed investment
   company.

   The candidate of the liberal ruling party, Chung Dong-young, has
   failed to capitalise on the opposition's infighting. Mr Chung lags
   behind Lee Hoi-chang, who in turn trails far behind Lee Myung-bak,
   according to opinion polls.

   In 1997, the Grand National Party, then in power, blew a large lead by
   squabbling; it does not want that to happen again. The desire for
   unity has increased Ms Park's power to demand concessions in return
   for support. Lee Myung-bak capitulated this week, promising to
   co-operate with Ms Park on future policy decisions, and blaming
   himself for disunity. "I have been inconsiderate," the contrite former
   mayor of Seoul says. That was enough to win Ms Park's endorsement.

   Lee Hoi-chang's supporters are unperturbed, vowing to continue the
   fight until the December 19th election. "What will happen when the BBK
   founder returns to Korea to defend himself?" they ask.

   Lee Myung-bak's supporters are equally unperturbed. They point out
   that their candidate weathered weeks of withering criticism from Ms
   Park about BBK during the primary election and his support remains
   solid. With Ms Park now endorsing the front runner, they expect Lee
   Hoi-chang's support to ebb. If polls are any guide, the bulldozer--as
   Lee Myung-bak is known--is still on course for victory.


   The BJP picks its octogenarian

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

                    Advani's number one--for the moment


   INDIA'S Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been in a mess since it
   unexpectedly lost the general election of 2004 to a coalition led by
   the Congress party. Leadership and policy squabbles have hampered its
   effectiveness in opposition, and no strong figure has emerged to take
   charge following the gradual retirement of Atal Bihari Vajpayee, a
   former prime minister whose equanimity fudged many of the party's
   harsher Hindu-nationalist policies. Now the party hopes to reverse
   that decline.

   At 82 and unwell, Mr Vajpayee has endorsed his colleague of over 30
   years, Lal Krishna Advani, the head of the party in Parliament, as the
   BJP's prime-ministerial candidate in the next general election. But Mr
   Advani, whose new role was announced on December 10th, is 80 and,
   though leaner and fitter than Mr Vajpayee, will have a tough time
   reimposing discipline and renewing vigour in what used to be one of
   India's more orderly parties.

   Mr Advani has been seen as a leading hardliner since he led a march in
   1992 that demolished an ancient Muslim mosque on a disputed religious
   site in Ayodhya, sparking widespread riots. In recent years he has
   tried to soften his image, even to the extent of making generous
   remarks about Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan, when he
   visited India's neighbour two years ago. That was too much for the
   BJP's parent organisation, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS),
   which forced his resignation as party president. He was replaced by
   Rajnath Singh, a capable administrator and regional politician in his
   mid-50s, who seemed to embody the generational shift that the party
   needs. Since then, however, Mr Singh has failed to become a unifying
   leader.

   The next general election is not due till 2009, so naming a
   prime-ministerial candidate could have been left a while--had it not
   been for two things. The first is the prospect of a snap poll if
   leftist parties withdraw their support for the government over India's
   proposed nuclear deal with America. Prakash Karat, leader of the
   biggest of the communist parties, gave warning recently that he would
   do just that by the end of this month if the government continued its
   current talks on the deal with the Vienna-based International Atomic
   Energy Agency.

   The second is the possibility of a leadership bid by Narendra Modi,
   the BJP's controversial and egotistical chief minister in Gujarat,
   whose approach to Muslims makes Mr Advani look like a softie. Polling
   is now taking place in Gujarat's assembly elections and Mr Modi's
   national ambitions would be "virtually unstoppable" if the BJP won,
   says Mahesh Rangarajan, a political analyst. That would be a problem
   in the rest of the party because Mr Modi alienates the RSS and others
   in the BJP with his centralising, autocratic style. Even more
   important, as prime minister he would find it virtually impossible to
   attract allies to a national coalition government if the BJP were the
   victor. With no other BJP politician of national stature, the party
   had little choice but to turn to Mr Advani for the moment. But in the
   long run others will have to emerge if Mr Modi is to be contained: he
   is only 57, and has a couple of decades to go, judging by the usual
   longevity of Indian politicians.


   The front-runner in South Korea's presidential poll is nicknamed the
   bulldozer. He seems to be boring his way towards the Blue House

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters


   NOT many people can realistically hope to be elected president on
   their birthday. But December 19th is not only election day in South
   Korea but also the 66th birthday and 37th wedding anniversary of the
   runaway favourite, Lee Myung-bak. Mr Lee is a former mayor of Seoul
   who has led the opinion polls throughout the year by a country mile.
   This month prosecutors absolved him of involvement in an investment
   fraud, seemingly clearing away his last hurdle before the vote.

   Yet few seem to muster much enthusiasm for the birthday boy. At his
   campaign rallies supporters clad in blue sweatshirts bearing his
   likeness try to galvanise onlookers with chants, dance routines and a
   throbbing, disco-like campaign song. The crowds remain desultory. In
   one stop outside Seoul earlier this month, the biggest cheer was for a
   group of children who waved at the candidate from the open windows of
   their school.

   This is odd. Presidential elections used to arouse paroxysms of
   emotion in South Korea. If Mr Lee were to win, he would bring an end
   to a decade of rule by two presidents, Kim Dae-jung and Roh Moo-hyun,
   who were liberal in the Korean sense (that is, slightly less
   pro-business and pro-American). His party represents the conservative
   old guard, though he himself is not a member of the traditional elite,
   nor does he hold their hardline views about North Korea. Whoever
   becomes president, moreover, will take over at a time when relations
   between the hermit kingdom and the rest of the world have reached a
   delicate point, with the rest still unsure about whether the North
   will give up its nuclear weapons.

   Why then has the 2007 campaign ignited so little passion? Perhaps
   because Mr Lee has enjoyed a lead in the opinion polls for so long (in
   the week before the vote, he was over 20 points ahead of his main
   rivals, who seem almost to have given up). Perhaps because no one else
   has caught the public's imagination either. The main challengers
   include a disaffected former leader of Mr Lee's Grand National Party,
   Lee Hoi-chang, who has twice failed to win the presidency. The leading
   liberal candidate, Chung Dong-young, is a former television anchorman
   who has turned off voters with his personal attacks on Mr Lee.

   And perhaps because of the man himself. Raspy-voiced, with a
   reputation for being aloof and prickly, Mr Lee is not a natural
   politician. He refuses to appear on South Korea's main commercial
   broadcaster, MBC, because he accuses it of bias. Every day ranks of
   police officers guard the main entrance of MBC as Mr Lee's supporters
   denounce its journalists. But like the presidential campaign itself,
   the protests lack numbers and fire.

   Ordinarily, his opponents might have been able to exploit Mr Lee's
   stilted manner. Instead it has become an advantage. Koreans care
   mainly about the economy. They want a competent manager and Mr Lee
   seems to fit the bill. As a child, he helped his mother sell popsicles
   and seaweed rolls. He put himself through university by working as a
   rubbish collector. He rose through the ranks of Hyundai to become
   chief executive of ten different affiliates. Lingering suspicion that
   his business dealings may not have been pristine has been overlooked.
   South Korea is going through a period of relative economic malaise and
   voters want faster growth than the 5% achieved last year under
   President Roh, the best showing of his presidency.

   Rising property prices have pushed workers in Seoul, home to half the
   population, far away from the capital, causing endless commutes to
   12-hour-a-day jobs. Parents who pay for private classes so their
   children can keep up in pressure-cooker schools want changes to the
   education system. Many Koreans demand a comprehensive social-security
   system, as befits the world's 13th largest economy. The next president
   will also have to ensure it is not business as usual between his
   office, the Blue House, and the country's conglomerates. The biggest,
   Samsung, stands accused by a former executive of widespread bribery,
   including of politicians.

   Mr Lee is responding to these varied demands with a
   comprehensive--even grandiose--list of promises. He says he can get
   growth up to 7% a year, bring average incomes up to $40,000 a year and
   make South Korea the world's seventh-largest economy by 2017. All this
   is to be achieved by cutting taxes, trimming public spending by 10%,
   easing the burden of regulation, improving the efficiency of medical
   spending and building a giant canal system through the middle of the
   country to create jobs and cut pollution. He is not promising to make
   pigs fly.

   If he wins, Mr Lee will face divisions in both country and party.
   Since the end of the Korean War, South Korea has been split along
   regional lines. The eastern part, Gyeongsang, has traditionally
   produced the country's leaders (Mr Lee grew up there, though he was
   born in Japan). They have tended to favour their hometowns at the
   expense of the south-west Jeolla region.

   The Grand National Party is also beset by internal rifts, notably
   between Mr Lee and Park Geun-hye, the daughter of a former military
   dictator, Park Chung-hee. Ms Park wants to run for president in five
   years' time. She also wants a hand in picking the party's candidates
   for parliamentary elections due in April 2008. If they cannot work
   together, Mr Lee's proposals may face an icy reception in parliament.

   Mr Lee has few specific ideas about getting North Korea to give up its
   nuclear weapons, beyond making aid and investment conditional on
   disarmament. "North Korea must take steps to demonstrate it wants
   peace before there is widespread economic assistance or investment by
   South Korea," says one of his closest foreign-policy advisers. In Mr
   Lee's view, the last two presidents have weakened South Korea's
   military alliance with America, and he promises to reinvigorate it. He
   also plans a range of co-operative economic agreements with Asian
   neighbours--and with Russia, in the hope of securing long-term oil and
   gas contracts in eastern Siberia. In short, all things to all
   countries.

   Many South Koreans have been disappointed by the decade-long rule of
   liberal presidents who promised much but failed to deliver either
   strong growth or uncorrupt leadership. They were also put off by
   President Roh's inability to create more jobs and reduce social
   inequality. In contrast Mr Lee's record as mayor of Seoul suggests he
   can get things done. But if he does win, he will do so partly because
   he has raised expectations--and will suffer all the more if he cannot
   live up to them.


                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   General Musharraf goes back to Civvy Street. Other civilians are not
   happy


   PERVEZ MUSHARRAF, Pakistan's beleaguered president, who prides himself
   on being a man of his word, had often promised to stand down as chief
   of the army. So on November 28th he inspected a guard of honour in
   Rawalpindi and passed the baton to General Ashfaq Pervez Kayani.
   Dressed in full regalia and bursting with emotion, General Musharraf
   said: "This army is my life, my passion. I love this army, and this
   relationship will continue, although I will not be in uniform." Aptly,
   the military band gave him a stirring send-off with "Auld Lang Syne".

   The next day plain "Mr" Musharraf was sworn in as a civilian president
   of the country by his new handpicked chief justice. His advisers say
   that President Musharraf will soon lift the state of emergency he
   imposed on November 3rd. That unconstitutional "deviation", as it is
   called in Pakistan, enabled Mr Musharraf to sack 12 judges of the
   supreme court who seemed bent on overthrowing him. He replaced them
   with more pliant ones. They have now duly legitimised his presidency.

   Even by Pakistani standards, it has been a tumultuous week. Mr
   Musharraf had long thundered that he would not allow Nawaz Sharif, the
   former prime minister he ousted in a coup in 1999, to return to
   Pakistan from exile in Saudi Arabia and rejoin politics. Indeed, when
   Mr Sharif tried to come home in September, he was bundled into a
   waiting aircraft at Islamabad and shunted off to Jeddah. But another
   former prime minister in exile, Benazir Bhutto, was allowed back on
   October 18th, thanks to American pressure on General Musharraf to make
   an alliance with her liberal People's Party. Mr Musharraf flew to
   Riyadh on November 22nd in a bid to convince King Abdullah to hang on
   to Mr Sharif until after the general elections on January 8th. But,
   far from entertaining the plea, the monarch dispatched Mr Sharif to
   Pakistan in a royal aircraft on November 25th, just in time to file
   his nomination papers for the elections.

   The opposition is seized with the difficulty of ensuring free and fair
   elections, or, failing that, of forging a united front to boycott the
   polls. Neither task is easy. Mr Musharraf has packed the election
   commission and caretaker administration with loyalists and rigged the
   rules.

   The opposition, moreover, is divided. Miss Bhutto has gauged her
   popularity--huge crowds welcomed her on October 18th--and wants to
   contest an election. But she is using the threat of a boycott to press
   demands that the state of emergency be lifted, pro-Musharraf local
   governments suspended, and the election commission reformed. Maulana
   Fazal ur Rehman, the leader of the biggest religious party, wants much
   the same. He hopes to form governments in the North-West Frontier
   province and Baluchistan.

   Only Mr Sharif favours a boycott. But he fears he would be sidelined
   if he goes it alone. So he is hedging his bets. He has filed his
   nomination papers but is also hoping for an all-parties conference to
   agree on a boycott. If, as seems likely, Mr Musharraf meets some
   opposition demands, the elections will go ahead.

   But they may not provide stability to Mr Musharraf's position--let
   alone Pakistan's. The country is bitterly divided across religious,
   regional, ethnic and class lines. Coalition governments in Islamabad
   and in the provinces are inevitable. As in the past, Mr Musharraf's
   party will be inclined to make alliances with the religious parties.
   But that will be looked at askance in America, which frets that such
   expedient political alliances help explain why Mr Musharraf's
   prosecution of the war against Islamist terrorists is ineffectual.

   However, if Mr Musharraf wants a deal with Miss Bhutto, he will have
   to share power with her, perhaps as prime minister, a prospect neither
   he nor his party relishes. If he spurns her, she will join hands with
   Mr Sharif and the mullahs to dethrone him. When Parliament meets in
   February, he will need a two-thirds majority to legitimise his
   "deviation" on November 3rd. Failing that, he would risk impeachment
   and have to turn for help to his new army chief, General Kayani.
   Pakistan would revert to rule by the "troika" of army chief, president
   and prime minister, an arrangement that has scarred politics since the
   restoration of democracy in 1988. One elected government after another
   has been sacked by the president (thrice) or the army chief (once, in
   1999).


   Disposing of rubbish, and wrecking livelihoods

   TARA BAI, a ragpicker in Mumbai who was named after an Indian queen,
   shakes her head angrily when asked if she is disgusted by her job:
   picking through mounds of rotting refuse for sellable plastic and
   metal. "It's not like that; it's how I survive," says the farmer's
   daughter, who moved to the city in 1972, when drought ended her rural
   life. But opening a fresh sack of rubbish to reveal millions of
   squirming maggots, she turns away as if to stop herself gagging.

   No one knows how many ragpickers there are in India. In Delhi alone,
   there are more than 300,000. They earn 100-150 rupees ($2.50-3.75) for
   eight hours' work. They save the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD)
   an estimated 600,000 rupees in daily waste-disposal costs, reckons
   Chintan, a charity that campaigns for their welfare.

   A small improvement came last month when Delhi's government equipped
   400 ragpickers with protective gloves and clothing. It is also giving
   them health-and-safety training and, if the scheme is successful, will
   repeat the exercise with another 4,000 scavengers. "It is to help them
   in their upliftment", says Dr Sabata, an official at Delhi's
   environment ministry. Almost all ragpickers are dalits, once known as
   untouchables.

   Ragpickers suffer from dreadfully high levels of illness, especially
   respiratory diseases. But health is not, at present, the main concern
   of the groups that campaign for them. In recent months, ragpickers in
   Delhi have been denied access to much of the rubbish upon which they
   depend. In its drive to spruce up the capital for the 2010
   Commonwealth games, the MCD has awarded waste-collection contracts to
   private companies in six of its 12 zones. These firms dump rubbish in
   inaccessible containers without any thought for recycling. This is
   unsurprising. They earn six rupees per tonne of collected rubbish;
   sold on, that refuse would fetch just over five rupees. Chintan has
   researched the impact in two zones, and has found that half the
   ragpickers reported a substantial drop in earnings.

   In Mumbai, waste collection has not yet been privatised, but it might
   be soon. "The government wants Mumbai to be modern, clean," says Jyoti
   Mhapsekar, president of Stree Mukti Sanghatana, a charity that works
   with the city's poorest. "But it will take away the livelihoods of
   these people." It will also, she adds, strip urban India of one of its
   few green credentials. Ragpickers, who leave no rubbish that is
   reusable, are the original recyclers; without them an impressive
   industry will be lost.


   But it still colours Narendra Modi's campaign for re-election in
   Gujarat

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP


   AS A cheerleader for the emerging India, a giant democracy with--at
   last--an economy to match, Narendra Modi is a disgrace. His six-year
   leadership of Gujarat, a booming western state, is widely cited as a
   paragon of economic management. But double-digit growth is not all
   that Mr Modi--who is seeking re-election in a poll due to begin on
   December 11th--is alleged to have orchestrated.

   There is also the small matter of 2,000 murdered Muslims, victims of a
   2002 pogrom carried out by his Hindu-nationalist followers with the
   collusion of Gujarat's bureaucracy and police. This week the widow of
   a Muslim politician called Ahsan Jafri, whose limbs and genitals were
   hacked off and the rest of him burned alive, was due to file a
   petition in the Supreme Court, accusing Mr Modi of mass murder. There
   is little justice for Muslims in Gujarat. Only eight people have been
   convicted over the pogrom, mostly in neighbouring states. In Gujarat,
   some 2,000 cases remain pending.

   A small matter, however, is just how the pogrom is viewed in Gujarat,
   the birth-place of Mahatma Gandhi, and a bastion of prohibition,
   vegetarianism and gnat-respecting Jains. Its last election, later in
   2002, gave Mr Modi a thumping majority, biggest in those districts
   where the bloodshed was worst. Mr Modi's campaign that year exploited
   anti-Muslim sentiment. He foamed and raved against Pakistan's leader,
   Pervez Musharraf--meaning, his audiences knew, scheming Muslims in
   their midst. Many considered--and consider--the pogrom to be a
   legitimate act of revenge against a poor minority making up 9% of
   Gujarat's population. It was organised by supporters of Mr Modi's
   Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after 58 Hindu activists were killed in a
   fire on a train for which, on scant evidence, Muslims were blamed.

   This time Mr Modi's campaign has been more sober. He has unleashed the
   odd rant against "terrorists", and a few barbs at Mr Musharraf. But
   the BJP'S leader has been much keener to trumpet Gujarat's recent
   economic performance--including growth of 11.5% last year. The change
   of tack may be because he is chary of the contempt the outside world
   holds for him. In 2005 America revoked his visa. EU countries have
   also denied him diplomatic status. This has been damaging to his
   ambitions to lead the BJP, and India. Mr Modi is already its most
   globe-trotting state boss. This year he has visited China, South
   Korea, Japan and Switzerland.

   But elections in India are not won by leading trade delegations--even
   in Gujarat, which has 24% of India's coastline and a proud commercial
   tradition. Moreover the slogan Mr Modi is most associated with,
   "Vibrant Gujarat"--the name of a biennial trade fair he has
   staged--recalls the ill-fated "India Shining" campaign run by India's
   last BJP-led government for the general election in 2004. It was
   turfed out by the masses for whom India did not shine. Many in the
   Congress party, which leads the coalition that won that election,
   predict that Mr Modi will suffer the same fate.

   His camp is certainly unhappy. Leaders of two powerful castes, the
   Patels and Kolis, which usually vote BJP, have rebelled against Mr
   Modi. They dislike his autocratic ways--and, perhaps, his intolerance
   of corruption. A total of 50 former BJP members of the outgoing
   assembly have refused or been denied the party's ticket. Eight are
   instead standing for Congress. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad, a Hindu
   group heavily implicated in the 2002 slaughter, is also upset with Mr
   Modi. Indeed, there are many in the BJP who would like to see him
   fall. With a general election due by May 2009, India's main opposition
   party is suffering a crisis of ideology and leadership. Another
   thumping win for the divisive Mr Modi would strengthen his claim to
   supply both.

   These divisions have given Congress hope. Its supporters also point
   out that Congress did better in Gujarat in the 2004 general election
   than in 2002. Its leader, Sonia Gandhi, has campaigned hard in
   Gujarat. A strong showing by Congress would be a bitter blow to the
   BJP. It might even embolden Mrs Gandhi to call a general election
   early next year, or at least to push through a controversial nuclear
   co-operation deal with America over the objections of the government's
   Communist allies. As the Communists have said they will forsake the
   government if the deal survives, this might come to the same thing.

   The BJP, however, remains the favourite. In 2002 it won 126 out of 182
   seats. Gujarat's illegal bookmakers, famed for their prescience,
   expect it to win again, with a smaller majority. Betting has been
   heavy. Meanwhile, few commentators have dwelt on the poll's most
   depressing aspect: Congress's own careful reluctance to mention the
   2002 massacre--let alone Mr Modi's alleged part in it. This makes
   electoral sense. Attacking Mr Modi for failing to protect Muslims
   might remind Gujaratis why they used to like him so much.

   After all, last month, in a brave investigation into the pogrom, an
   Indian magazine, Tehelka, published transcripts of Gujarati
   Hindu-nationalists confessing to hideous murders and rapes. One
   alleged that Mr Modi had granted them three days to do this work
   unimpeded by the police--which is in fact what happened. No action has
   been taken against them. Instead, senior Congress figures have accused
   Tehelka of being in cahoots with the BJP. Gujarati bookies responded
   to its report by shortening the odds on Mr Modi.


   Small farmers lose their livelihoods to corrupt officials

   ONE day in December, 70-year-old Doung Moeurn and her neighbours
   arrived to work on their rice paddies to find soldiers putting up a
   barbed-wire fence around them. As in China, across Cambodia growing
   numbers of small farmers and slum-dwellers have fallen victim to
   land-grabbing.

   The country's rapid economic growth in recent years has meant that
   land, having hitherto been almost worthless, is now a
   fast-appreciating asset. Almost any Cambodian with a bit of spare cash
   is taking a speculative punt, snapping up a chunk of land in the hope
   of easy profits. Small farmers, and poor people living in shacks in
   the towns and cities, usually have no proof that they own their land
   or homes. This makes it easy for the speculators--often politicians,
   civil servants or army brass--to work the corrupt legal system to take
   the ground from under their feet.

   Public anger over land grabs has risen to the point where the prime
   minister, Hun Sen, an elected strongman, is having to distance himself
   from those among the upper ranks of his Cambodian People's Party who
   are the worst culprits. On March 5th Mr Hun Sen publicly rebuked them
   for ruining the party's reputation, and gave them a "last chance" to
   abandon their dodgy land deals or be sacked. An unnamed army general
   was being demoted for disobeying this order, he said. Others, he
   thundered in his typically no-nonsense style, may face an even worse
   fate: "I really don't want bloodshed, but if you still fail to obey
   me, blood must flow."

   Doung Moeurn says her family had been farming their patch of earth, in
   the rural province of Kompong Speu, since 1979. They have complained
   to the authorities, but so far to no avail. As they point out the
   offending fence and the guard-post with dozing soldiers at one corner
   of it, the head of a nearby village, whose people also lost land,
   turns up. He says he went to the provincial court the previous day but
   was told it could do nothing to help.

   Roth Thawy, from the local office of ADHOC, a human-rights group, says
   the villagers' case was one of 33 land-grabbing complaints received
   from across Kompong Speu last year. Mr Roth Thawy said he went to the
   nearby army base to find out why its soldiers had fenced off the
   villagers' land. A senior officer told him it was needed for
   unspecified military purposes. Some of his troops, however, said they
   had heard the land was being sold on to a businessman. Sometimes, say
   ADHOC's campaigners, farmers do get compensation, but usually only a
   pittance.

   Cambodia is recovering slowly from the chaos left by the communist
   Khmer Rouge regime of 1975-79 and the civil war that followed its
   collapse. A 1989 law allows those who occupy land for at least five
   years to claim ownership. But so far only a small fraction of the
   millions of rural households entitled to claim the deeds to their land
   have actually received them.

   The World Bank is helping the government to speed up the issuing of
   deeds, but it worries that landlessness is still getting worse. About
   a fifth of rural households now have no land, it reckons, while much
   land, snapped up by speculators, sits idle. Land-grabbing is only part
   of the problem: other causes include population growth and the
   increasing demand for land for industry and large-scale plantations.
   Even those small farmers still in possession of their land are
   reluctant to put time and money into improving it. This means that
   agricultural output is lower--and poverty higher--than they should be.

   Land-grabbing cases are popping up all over the country, even at Boeng
   Kak lake, right behind the government's information ministry in the
   capital, Phnom Penh. Over 4,000 families face eviction from their
   lakeside shacks by developers who have signed a deal with the
   municipality to drain the lake and build over it. Whatever the 1989
   law says, the ill-educated poor are usually defeated by the
   well-connected rich in any legal battle.

   Will Mr Hun Sen keep his promise to rein in his land-grabbing
   apparatchiks? ADHOC's national leader, Thun Saray, is sceptical: he
   says the prime minister often promises big reforms but fails to
   deliver. In other countries with land conflicts--Brazil is a prime
   example--powerful landless peasants' movements can whip up big, angry
   protests that force the government to act. Cambodia does not have one
   of these: at least, not yet.


                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   Dissidents detect a slight thaw. But no one is hailing a Beijing
   spring


   FLANKED by plainclothes policemen, a former top Chinese official, now
   a leading dissident, greets a foreign journalist outside his apartment
   building. The police are welcoming too. After noting down the
   visitor's identity, they allow him to proceed to the dissident's flat
   to interview him. Only a few months ago, journalists were strictly
   barred. China's curtain of repression is not lifting. But it is
   twitching.

   This is a sensitive time of year in China. June 4th is the anniversary
   of the suppression of the Tiananmen Square protests in 1989. Most
   years since then, dissidents have tried to use the occasion to stage
   protests. Four days later falls the 50th anniversary of the
   "anti-rightist movement", a sweeping campaign launched by Mao Zedong
   to crush dissent. As usual, the state-controlled press is under orders
   to ignore these dates. Party leaders do not want to revive memories of
   past repression.

   The party still stamps on dissent. Human-rights activists and members
   of unauthorised religious groups are occasionally harassed or jailed.
   Liberal newspaper editors are sacked. Outspoken websites are closed
   down. Organised opposition to the party remains banned. But in the
   past few months, some dissidents say they have noticed an easing. One
   such is Bao Tong, the former senior official.

   Party leaders have reason to be worried about what Mr Bao (on the
   right above) might say. He was a top aide to the late Zhao Ziyang
   (left), who was Communist Party chief until he was deposed in 1989 for
   being too soft on the Tiananmen protesters. Mr Bao was a member of the
   party's Central Committee and the highest-ranking official jailed (for
   seven years) for his role in the unrest. In a still tightly secretive
   political system, Mr Bao, now 75, knows where the party buries its
   bodies.

   He links the authorities' decision to let him meet foreign--though not
   Chinese--journalists to this year's new regulations allowing the
   foreign media a freer rein in China around the Olympic Games in
   Beijing in August 2008. He does not see this as a big change of heart.
   Some 30 police are detailed to keep watch over him, he estimates.
   China is open, he says, as long as one does not criticise the party's
   leadership. Yet Mr Bao shows little restraint in attacking its
   corruption and repressive instincts, as well as one-party rule in
   general. Before Tiananmen, he says, liberal party officials reckoned
   there could be multi-candidate elections for the post of party chief
   by 2002. Now, he says, Chinese leaders are too afraid of losing
   control.

   This fear is reflected in the party's refusal to address the
   complaints of victims of the anti-rightist movement. By the party's
   own--very conservative--estimate, more than 500,000 intellectuals were
   subjected to punishment ranging from criticism and dismissal from
   their jobs to forced labour and imprisonment. In 1981, five years
   after the death of Mao, the party ruled that the anti-rightist
   movement had gone too far; all but a handful of those labelled as
   rightists were rehabilitated. But the party still maintained that it
   was right to have launched it.

   Mao Yushi, a prominent economist, is one of 60 of the movement's
   victims who launched a petition earlier this year calling for the
   campaign to be declared unconstitutional. He says there has been no
   response from the party. Mr Mao, now 78, says the movement turned it
   into a "party of liars", incapable of changing. Party leaders, he
   says, feel weak and are focused on maintaining stability. Any
   re-evaluation of the anti-rightist movement or of Tiananmen, they
   believe, could rock the boat.

   Holes in the net

   Yet both wittingly and unwittingly, the party is giving its critics
   more breathing space. The rapid spread of the internet has helped
   dissidents publicise their views and keep in contact. Hu Jia, a
   human-rights activist who campaigns for victims of HIV/AIDS, spent
   more than 200 days under virtual house arrest until early this year.
   His wife, Zeng Jinyan, posted reports on her blog. Mr Hu says police
   have this month again been stopping him from going out, except for a
   brief hospital visit, accusing him of threatening state security.

   But it is becoming less common in Beijing for dissidents to suffer
   such tight restrictions. Liu Xiaobo, a former lecturer once described
   by China's media as a "black hand" behind the Tiananmen unrest, and
   now a prolific online essayist, says the police have left him alone
   since early March. For the past two years they were posted
   continuously outside his home between March and June. Ding Zilin, who
   organises a group of mothers of Tiananmen victims, says foreign
   journalists have found it much easier this year to visit her apartment
   without official interference. Last month the authorities allowed two
   Tiananmen activists, Chen Ziming and Ren Wanding, to visit Hong
   Kong--the first time they had been allowed to leave the Chinese
   mainland since 1989.

   In recent months, Zhang Yihe, whose late father, Zhang Bojun, was one
   of the anti-rightist movement's most senior targets, has fought a
   spirited campaign against government censors after their attack on one
   of her books, about Chinese opera stars. Ms Zhang had apparently
   offended the powers-that-be with her previous writing about the
   sufferings of intellectuals, including her father, in the 1957
   campaign. Her online attacks against the censors, and her unavailing
   attempt to sue them, were widely supported by Chinese internet
   commentators. Ms Zhang says she is proud her father was a rightist.
   And cross though she is at the censors, they have done wonders, she
   says, for her sales.


   Thailand is on the election trail and heading towards uncertainty

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   "WE'RE not selling fish sauce, this is an election rally," jokes
   Sombat Ratano as he walks alongside his campaign truck with a
   microphone, hailing the voters of a rural village in Ubon Ratchathani
   province. In Isaan, Thailand's poor and populous north-east region,
   support is still strong for Thaksin Shinawatra, the prime minister
   deposed by a military coup in September 2006. Mr Sombat is a candidate
   in the December 23rd general election. He is standing for the People's
   Power Party (PPP), a reincarnation of Mr Thaksin's Thai Rak Thai
   (TRT), which was disbanded after the coup. As he tours the village, he
   drops Mr Thaksin's name at every opportunity, promising to revive the
   policies--from cheap health care to farming loans--that made the
   former prime minister popular.

   Pakistan is not the only Asian country where a dodgy military regime
   is running a general election under dubious electoral rules in the
   hope of keeping out a similarly dodgy civilian whom it overthrew. The
   difference is that unlike Benazir Bhutto in Pakistan, the exiled Mr
   Thaksin is not being allowed to take part in the vote himself, and
   there may be slightly more hope that things will come out right in the
   end.

   Middle-class Bangkokians, who are as snooty about their country
   cousins as any metropolitan elite anywhere, often say that
   "uneducated" rural voters such as those in Isaan were bribed and
   tricked into voting for Mr Thaksin. But rural voters were quite
   rational in handing him landslide victories in 2001 and 2005. He was
   Thailand's first party leader to promise and deliver a comprehensive
   set of policies aimed at the mass of voters. The allegations of
   corruption, conflicts of interest and vote-buying that surround him
   are serious but hardly unusual: such practices are endemic in Thai
   politics.

   The gravest allegation against Mr Thaksin is that in a "war on drugs"
   in 2003 he seemed to be encouraging extra-judicial killings of
   suspected drug-dealers by police. An investigation into this, started
   after the coup, remains incomplete--perhaps because the policy,
   however brutal, was also popular. Amid signs of resurgent amphetamine
   abuse, the PPP unashamedly talks of reviving it.

   On his shirt Mr Sombat bears the logo of King Bhumibol's 80th birthday
   celebrations, held earlier in December. This is a subtle riposte to
   the military junta's accusation that Mr Thaksin and his party do not
   respect the country's revered monarch, whose portrait is as
   omnipresent in the Isaan countryside as it is around Bangkok's royal
   palaces. The PPP has also hired Samak Sundaravej, an arch-royalist, as
   stand-in leader while Mr Thaksin remains abroad. Though close to the
   palace, Mr Samak is a foe of General Prem Tinsulanonda, the king's
   chief adviser and, Thaksinites allege, mastermind of the coup.

   Many parties, old and new, are contesting the election. Some have
   brought military men on board, hoping for army backing. Niran
   Pitakwatchara, a local doctor standing in Ubon Ratchathani for
   Matchimathipataya, one of the new parties, reckons voters have started
   to see the flaws in Mr Thaksin's policies. But all the other parties,
   including Mr Niran's, have adopted copycat versions of them--making
   them awkward to attack.

   The generals who staged the coup claimed to be saving Thai democracy
   from Mr Thaksin's abuses. Their dictatorship has been a pretty mild
   one and they are keeping their promise to hold the election by the end
   of 2007. But they presumably hoped the former leader would be
   forgotten by now. He has not been. Though Thailand's quirky opinion
   polls must be treated with caution, most predict that the PPP will win
   comfortably more seats than its nearest rival, the Democrats, although
   not a majority. The widespread assumption is that the Democrats will
   nevertheless form a ramshackle coalition. The problem is that Abhisit
   Vejjajiva, the Democrats' leader, though young and handsome, may not
   command enough respect to lead a fractious government.

   Until the coup, Thailand seemed to be escaping its historic cycle of
   alternating military dictatorships and weak civilian rule. By the late
   1990s it had become a beacon of multi-party democracy in Asia. Whether
   that beacon will shine again is unclear. If a Democrat-led coalition
   takes office, the PPP seems likely to make its life difficult and
   short-lived. If the PPP leads the next government, a peace pact with
   the generals is possible but the military men are bound to be nervous.
   The PPP promises to rescind a political ban that a tribunal created by
   the junta imposed on Mr Thaksin and 110 allies. If he returns, he
   would be able to scrap the amnesty that the coupmakers granted
   themselves--and put them in the dock.

   General Anupong Paojinda, a new army chief who took over in October,
   insists there will be no coup even if the Thaksinites win. Then again,
   General Sonthi Boonyaratglin, his predecessor, repeatedly made the
   same promise right up to the moment he overthrew Mr Thaksin.

   The generals, courtiers and bureaucrats who have been in charge for
   the past 15 months have ruled dismally. Thailand's economy is now one
   of the slowest-growing in booming Asia. The army-appointed interim
   government has become ever more invisible as its popularity has sunk.
   General Sonthi, presumably fearing humiliation, quietly dropped plans
   to stand in the election. But it is unclear whether the army and its
   civilian backers have learned the old lesson that coups and
   extra-constitutional excursions tend to make political crises worse
   and do not produce good government.

   Thailand's judicial and regulatory institutions are on trial in the
   election. For example, a new Election Commission, appointed with
   little dissent in the turmoil shortly before the coup, faces
   accusations of partiality. It absolved the military junta of plotting
   to subvert the election by undermining the PPP, despite the discovery
   of army documents detailing the plot. But the commission is now
   threatening to disqualify the PPP over the less serious matter of a
   video clip in which Mr Thaksin breaches his ban on politicking and
   urges support for his party.

   The commission and courts will have lots of complaints to handle after
   the polls close. If they enforce the rules impartially and promptly,
   they could set Thailand back on the road to democracy. If they are
   arbitrary, biased or dilatory, they may doom it to more years of
   instability--especially if they leave the impression that the people
   have voted for Thaksinism, only to have their will subverted.


   Corruption, nepotism and impunity threaten the peace process

   IN SEPTEMBER last year a warrant was issued for the arrest of Sitaram
   Prasain, who was accused of stealing $4.3m from his own bank. This
   plunged the partly state-owned outfit, set up to lend to small
   businesses, into insolvency. Yet somehow the police could not find
   him. He seemed invisible, even when many of the country's top
   politicians attended his son's lavish wedding. For many Nepalis, this
   was all too typical of a system where the rich and privileged are
   above the law.

   When the Young Communist League, a squad of thugs run by Nepal's
   Maoists, kidnapped Mr Prasain this month and paraded him in front of
   the press before handing him to the police, there was an almighty row.
   Girija Koirala, the irate prime minister, called them the "Young
   Criminal League". The Maoist leader, known as Prachanda, retorted that
   it was Mr Koirala who consorted with criminals. Ashish Thapa, of
   Transparency International, an anti-corruption watchdog, points out
   that Mr Prasain had given generously to various political parties.

   The Maoists, whose ten-year insurgency ended in a messy truce last
   year, are now partners in an interim government, while the chaotic
   country pursues a permanent peace. Yet the Prasain affair suggests
   that peace needs at least some integrity in public life. Aside from
   short-lived, politically motivated episodes, no one can recall anybody
   important in Nepal ever being punished for anything.

   The Supreme Court itself is bound up in the culture of impunity.
   Earlier this year an unsuccessful litigant released recordings of his
   efforts to win a property dispute through bribery. No action has been
   taken. Yet the judiciary has a vital role in the peace process, both
   in hearing important constitutional cases and in a planned "truth and
   reconciliation" process over the many human-rights abuses committed by
   both sides to the conflict.

   The Maoists, while posing as the party of justice, also look shady.
   There are many reports of their involvement in illegal logging. (A
   Maoist, as it happens, holds the cabinet portfolio covering forestry,
   traditionally seen as a lucrative sinecure.) And there has never been
   a proper accounting for millions of dollars in finance-ministry
   cheques payable to Krishna Mahara, a Maoist leader. The money was
   intended to pay for disarming and demobilising the Maoists' fighters.
   Transparency's Mr Thapa thinks the Maoists in fact have more
   ways--legal and otherwise--to raise revenue than any other party, and
   have amassed large sums of money.

   The police, too, have a big role to play in establishing law and order
   before and during elections due this autumn. Yet listening to a group
   of mid-ranking officers discussing their hopes for juicy job postings
   does not inspire confidence. The luckiest among them might end up with
   a casino on their beat, with attendant opportunities for kickbacks.
   Since Mr Koirala, from the Congress Party, became prime minister last
   year many officers with Congress links have been promoted.

   "It goes to the feudal character of our society," says Devendra
   Panday, a former finance minister who is now a campaigner for peace
   and democracy. "In the patron-client system there is no incentive to
   clamp down on corruption." Nepotism and party bias in appointments
   undermine institutions. "The country is full of incompetent people as
   well as corrupt ones."

   Cynicism about the way things work is all-pervasive--and extends to
   foreign aid. International donors are big providers of good jobs for
   the local elite. Many able young people in Kathmandu, who lack the
   connections, have concluded that only the upper classes need apply. In
   the unhappy villages, where most people live and development is yet to
   come, peasants are quick to assume, rightly or wrongly, that money
   intended for them has been stolen higher up the system. Others contend
   that it is simply wasted by people too rich to understand their
   problems. Such resentments fuelled the Maoists' "people's war". Yet
   the system that breeds them shows no sign of changing.


   Pakistan's role in developing and disseminating nuclear-weapons
   technology around the world has long been known to America, a new book
   contends 

     The Nuclear Jihadist: The True Story of the Man Who Sold the World's
               Most Dangerous Secrets...and How We Could Have Stopped Him
                                  By Douglas Frantz and Catherine Collins
                                                         [0446199575.jpg]
                                                   Twelve; 432 pages; $25
                                                                Buy it at
                                                            [3]Amazon.com
                                                          [4]Amazon.co.uk

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters


   DURING a visit last year to Washington, DC, to try to convince George
   Bush's administration that she was the answer to Pakistan's problems,
   Benazir Bhutto promised to hand over Abdul Qadeer Khan, the former
   head of her nation's atomic bomb programme, who has been living under
   house arrest in Islamabad since 2004. Under Miss Bhutto's rule, Mr
   Khan would be made available for questioning--not directly by the
   Americans, but by the next best thing, the International Atomic Energy
   Agency in Vienna.

   Miss Bhutto is now dead, and it is unlikely that any other Pakistani
   leader in the near future will allow the world to know the full
   details of how a Pakistani scientist came to sell nuclear secrets to
   Iran, Libya and North Korea. The reaction at home to Miss Bhutto's
   proposal was outrage. Mr Khan, best known as A.Q. Khan, may officially
   be in disgrace and forced to live without access to radio, television
   or the internet, but for many Pakistanis he remains a national hero.
   When he was hospitalised last year the prime minister sent flowers.

   "The Nuclear Jihadist" exposes in detail how Mr Khan, an affable,
   mediocre metallurgist inspired by the dream of an Islamic bomb, stole
   nuclear technology from the Dutch laboratory in which he was working
   in the mid-1970s, moved back to Pakistan to build a giant enrichment
   complex to make the bomb at Kahuta in Punjab province, and then
   created a nuclear Wal-Mart to sell the parts to others. The authors
   describe his work as the linchpin of the "second nuclear age".

   Pakistan's progress towards becoming a nuclear power began with Miss
   Bhutto's father, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, who promised, "If India builds
   the bomb, we will eat grass or leaves, even go hungry, but we will get
   one of our own." As for Miss Bhutto, she told the Americans when she
   was prime minister in the late 1980s that she did not know the details
   of the nuclear device her scientists were developing. If she was being
   truthful, the authors suggest she was close to negligent. She assured
   George Bush senior that she would keep Pakistan from enriching uranium
   to weapons-grade level, and was promptly sold 60 F-16 fighter jets.
   America had sold Pakistan 40 F-16s during the Reagan presidency, when
   it already knew about the nuclear programme.

   The book's most revealing passages are about America's role in the
   affair. The authors argue that successive American administrations
   knew a lot about Mr Khan's activities, but for larger strategic
   foreign-policy reasons, chose to do nothing about them. Mr Khan was
   able to flout international rules on nuclear non-proliferation because
   American policymakers thought that securing Pakistan's assistance in
   defeating the Soviet Union in Afghanistan--and, more recently,
   President Pervez Musharraf's help in fighting terrorism--were more
   important than limiting the spread of nuclear bombs.

   The story of Richard Barlow, a CIA agent who once worked in its
   directorate of intelligence on proliferation, sums up the American
   attitude. Mr Barlow had protested that intelligence was being
   manipulated by the Pentagon to suit the policy adopted by President
   Bush senior's administration of turning a blind eye to Pakistan's
   nuclear development. He lost his job. The authors find Mr Barlow at
   the end of the book denied his state pension, living with two dogs in
   a motor home.

   The one successful recent effort to reverse the spread of nuclear
   technology involves Libya. After September 11th 2001, Libya's leader,
   Muammar Qaddafi, agreed to give up his nuclear ambitions in return for
   better access to western investment and trade. But the authors show
   that even in this instance American and British intelligence agents
   believe enough critical technology remains hidden to allow Libya one
   day to rekindle its programme.

   Douglas Frantz, an investigative journalist and former managing editor
   of the Los Angeles Times, and his wife, Catherine Collins, also a
   journalist, know how to weave complicated material into a persuasive
   narrative. Mr Musharraf has insisted all along that Mr Khan, the
   salesman, was a lone wolf who operated under the radar, and that his
   network has been shut down. The authors argue that this claim is
   far-fetched: there is still plenty of nuclear know-how in the wrong
   hands.
   The Nuclear Jihadist: The True Story of the Man Who Sold the World's
   Most Dangerous Secrets...and How We Could Have Stopped Him.
   By Douglas Frantz and Catherine Collins.
   Twelve; 432 pages; $25 


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   A Maoist walk-out jeopardises the peace process


   RATHER than lose an election, Nepal's Maoists seem ready to scuttle
   it. On September 18th they announced that they were leaving the
   eight-party transitional government headed by Girija Prasad Koirala.
   They seemed to realise that they would do badly in elections,
   scheduled for November 22nd, for an assembly to draft a new
   constitution. Rather than risk humiliation, they shifted the
   goalposts, making demands beyond the powers of the interim
   constitution.

   That constitution provides for a "mixed election" to the constituent
   assembly, with half the members to be directly elected, and half
   through proportional representation. Expecting to fare better under a
   fully proportional system, the Maoists' leader, known as "Prachanda",
   demanded one be adopted. The interim constitution also promises that
   the future of Nepal's monarchy will be decided at the new assembly's
   first meeting. The Maoists demanded that the interim parliament
   immediately turn the country into a republic.

   The two large political parties, Mr Koirala's Nepali Congress and the
   mainstream Communists, known as the UML, had to decide how much ground
   to give to ensure elections would be held and peace preserved. There
   was talk of seat adjustments to ensure that a dozen Maoist leaders
   made it into the assembly. There were even promises that during the
   election campaign, all eight parties would make public commitments to
   vote for a republic.

   Ever since a popular movement brought an end to the autocratic rule of
   King Gyanendra in April 2006, the Maoists' position has been
   ambivalent. On the one hand, they have submitted to a United
   Nations-supervised "arms management" process--a euphemism for
   demobilisation. And, officially, they have given up their "people's
   war", which in ten years led to some 13,000 deaths, in order to join
   open, competitive politics. On the other hand, they have not equipped
   their cadres intellectually for non-violent politics. Instead they
   have let loose on the populace a corps of thugs, known as the Young
   Communist League. And last month a Maoist plenum saw militarist
   hardliners accuse the moderate leadership of "selling out" the
   revolution. In defensive response, Mr Prachanda and his chief
   ideologue, Baburam Bhattarai, stiffened their demands.

   It has not helped that the eight-party alliance is run autocratically
   by Mr Koirala, an ailing octogenarian in his sixth decade in politics.
   Whether out of choice or infirmity, he is increasingly remote, and has
   alienated his most important democratic ally, the UML's Madhav Kumar
   Nepal. As the Election Commission prepared for polls, the public
   watched nervously to see whether Mr Koirala or Mr Prachanda would
   blink first. Instead, the latter averted his gaze and stalked off.

   The timing of the Maoists' exit is at best irresponsible. Nepal is
   tackling three daunting challenges simultaneously: preparing for the
   first elections since 1999; rehabilitating the victims of the
   conflict; and restructuring the state, with the monarchy probably
   being shown the door.

   Opportunistic violence has flared in many parts of Nepal over the past
   year from historically disfranchised groups asserting their demands
   against the background of abject lack of government. Tensions between
   the people of the hills and those of the plains are worse than ever.
   Other linguistic, religious and regional divides are also being
   exploited. The Maoists' departure from government is likely to
   encourage violent groups, more of which are being established by the
   day.

   Delaying the election also gives King Gyanendra a breather--hardly the
   Maoists' intention. The Nepal Army, which waged a dirty war against
   the Maoists and supported the king's seizure of absolute power in
   February 2005, may also savour the prospect of a descent into anarchy
   and turmoil. It would justify its re-emergence from the barracks,
   where it has been sequestered in humiliation since April 2006. A
   reinvigorated Nepal Army is surely the last thing that the Maoists
   would want.

   There is still hope, however. Despite the fierce speeches surrounding
   their withdrawal, Maoist leaders did not reject the peace agreement
   they signed with the other political parties, nor the interim
   constitution, and have not left the eight-party alliance. At talks
   with the other parties on September 20th a compromise was discussed,
   in which parliament would make some token gesture of support for a
   republic, but leave the final say to the sovereign, elected
   constituent assembly.


                                                              James Miles

                                James Miles

   China's Communist Party, reconsidering Marx's words, is starting to
   wonder whether there might not be a use for religion after all


   "DEVELOP the dragon spirit; establish a dragon culture," urge large
   green characters at the high school in Hongliutan, a poor village at
   the foot of a range of bleak loess hills. Though dragon can be a
   synonym for China, it is a god known as the Black Dragon that is being
   invoked here. Without funds from the Black Dragon's hillside temple,
   in a gully behind the village, the school would not exist. Nor, most
   likely, would the adjacent primary school and the irrigation system
   that brings water from the nearby Wuding River to the village's maize
   and cabbage fields.

   Many local governments in rural China are mired in debt. Recent
   central government efforts to keep peasants happy by abolishing
   centuries-old taxes have not made life any easier for these
   bureaucracies. With their revenues cut, rural authorities have found
   it ever more difficult to scrape together money for health care and
   education. So they are only too happy to allow others to share the
   burden of providing these services--even the Black Dragon, whose
   500-year-old temple was demolished by Maoist radicals during the
   Cultural Revolution in the 1960s. Now officials in Yulin, the
   prefecture to which Hongliutan belongs, give the temple their
   blessing.

   The revival of the Black Dragon Temple's fortunes is part of a
   resurgence of religious or quasi-religious activity across China
   that--notwithstanding occasional crackdowns--is transforming the
   social and political landscape of many parts of the countryside.
   Religion is also attracting many people in the cities, where the
   party's atheist ideology has traditionally held stronger sway.

   The resurgence encompasses ancient folk religions and ancestor
   worship, along with the organised religions of Buddhism, Taoism, Islam
   (among ethnic minorities) and, most strikingly, given its foreign
   origins and relatively short history in China, Christianity. In the
   face of this onslaught, the party is beginning to rethink its approach
   to religion. It now acknowledges that it may even have its uses.

   In Hongliutan the party appears in retreat. It is not the party
   secretary Zhang Tieniu who holds sway. Mr Zhang was the youngest party
   chief in the prefecture when he was appointed last year at the age of
   32. But in a culture that reveres age, some villagers refer to him
   dismissively as a "lad". The man in charge in Hongliutan is
   64-year-old Wang Kehua. Mr Wang happens to belong to the village's
   main clan. He is also the village's elected chief (a post which in
   most villages is subordinate to that of party secretary). More to the
   point, he controls the temple and its money.

   It was Mr Wang's idea to rebuild the temple in 1986, a decade after
   Mao's death. Mr Wang, who had become one of the village's wealthiest
   men by wheeling and dealing elsewhere, donated some of his own money
   and organised villagers to add theirs. It was a promising venture.
   Historically, the Black Dragon Temple had a reputation extending far
   beyond the village. The dragon was renowned in the parched semi-desert
   of the north of Shaanxi Province, 600 kilometres (370 miles) west of
   Beijing, as a bringer of rain. If the temple was rebuilt, people would
   come, pray to the dragon--and spend money.

   Mr Wang does not, however, speak of commercial motives. In the bare
   concrete-walled room he calls his office, he describes how, one after
   the other, the half-dozen villagers who had destroyed the temple in
   the 1960s fell victim to the vengeful dragon in subsequent years. The
   man who had broken off the head of the Black Dragon's effigy (the god
   is worshipped in a human-looking form, as shown in the picture above)
   had his head blown off when a factory boiler exploded. Another bled to
   death after accidentally chopping his foot with an axe. One was
   crushed by a donkey cart. Their offspring also suffered ill fate.
   These events, says Mr Wang, convinced him of the power of the dragon
   and of the importance of reviving its worship.

   The temple has no clergy. Visitors are mainly drawn by their belief in
   the dragon's power to tell the future. Many want to know whether
   business ventures or marriages will succeed. Mr Wang asked the Black
   Dragon whether the divinity approved his appointment as temple chief.
   It did. The dragon's responses are given in the form of obscurely
   worded classical poems written on pieces of paper issued by a
   70-year-old villager, Chen Yushan, clad in his blue padded Mao suit.
   Mr Chen offers his interpretation of what these poems mean. An
   entrepreneur who is told his business will be successful, and who then
   enjoys financial success, is quite likely to make a big donation to
   the temple.

   Turning a blind eye

   Officially, the party regards folk religion as superstition, the
   public practice of which is illegal. But in many rural areas officials
   now bend the rules. In Yulin prefecture, with 3.4m people, there are
   106 officially registered places of worship and many more that are not
   officially sanctioned. Most are not part of the five mainstream
   religions (China regards the two Christian traditions, Catholicism and
   Protestantism, as separate) that the party recognises. But Yulin has
   allowed the Black Dragon Temple to affiliate itself with the
   government-sponsored Taoist Association. This gives it a cloak of
   legitimacy. So too does an arboretum that Mr Wang has planted with
   temple funds (at the dragon's request, he says, but it also helps him
   show officials how the village is contributing to government efforts
   to stop the desert encroaching).

   Local officials themselves benefit from the greater tolerance. For all
   the party's dictatorial ways, government officers are often fearful of
   triggering unrest by enforcing unpopular policies that are not all
   that vital to the party's interests (hence the increasingly patchy
   implementation of population control). Demonstrations in an official's
   jurisdiction can do far more damage to his career than turning a blind
   eye to popular religion--so long as such activity does not directly
   challenge the party.

   There are also more tangible rewards. In his book "Miraculous
   Response", Adam Yuet Chau of the School of Oriental and African
   Studies in London says that temples applying for official registration
   typically have to treat local officials to banquets. Officials, he
   adds, support temples that pay them respect and tribute. They also
   gain financially from taxes levied on merchants who do business at
   temple fairs. Policemen invited to maintain order at these occasions
   are paid with cash, good food and liquor.

   In the view of local officials, Mr Chau argues, temples play the same
   kind of role as commercial enterprises. They generate prosperity for
   the local economy and income for the local government. This is
   especially true of the Black Dragon Temple, which says it attracts
   200,000 people to its ten-day summer fair (the Black Dragon himself,
   villagers say, has also shown up in the form of an unusually shaped
   cloud).

   Evidence of China's religious revival can be seen throughout the
   countryside in the form of lavish new temples, halls for ancestor
   worship, churches and mosques (except in the far western province of
   Xinjiang, where the government worries that Islam is intertwined with
   ethnic separatism and keeps tighter rein). Officially there are more
   than 100m religious believers in China (see table), or about 10% of
   the population. But experts say the real number is very much higher.

   This does not mean that China has embraced religious freedom. Some
   religions--Tibetan Buddhism, Islam as practised in Xinjiang,
   Catholicism and "house church" Protestantism, which involves informal
   gatherings of believers outside registered churches--are still subject
   to tight controls because of the party's fears that their followers
   might have an anti-government bent. A seven-year-old crackdown on
   Falun Gong, a quasi-Buddhist sect that flourished in the 1990s, is
   still being pursued with ruthless intensity. Many Falun Gong
   practitioners, as well as lesser numbers of followers of other faiths
   who refuse to accept state attempts to regulate their religions, are
   imprisoned in labour camps.

   Within the party, however, debate is growing about whether it should
   take a different approach to religion. This does not mean being more
   liberal towards what it regards as anti-government activities. But it
   could mean toning down the party's atheist rhetoric and showing
   stronger support for faiths that have deep historical roots among the
   ethnic Han majority. The party is acutely aware that its own ideology
   holds little attraction for most ordinary people. Given that many are
   drawn to other beliefs, it might do better to try to win over public
   opinion by actively supporting these beliefs rather than grudgingly
   tolerating them or cracking down.

   Pan Yue, then a senior official dealing with economic reforms and now
   deputy director of the State Environmental Protection Administration,
   argued in an article published in 2001 that the party's traditional
   view of religion was wrong. Marx, he said, did not mean to imply that
   religion was a bad thing when he referred to it as the opium of the
   people. Religion, he said, could just as easily exist in socialist
   societies as it does in capitalist ones. He also singled out Buddhism
   and Taoism for having helped to bolster social stability through
   successive Chinese dynasties. Stability being of paramount concern to
   the party today, Mr Pan's message was clear.

   In praise of harmony

   His article angered party conservatives at the time: the party's
   official stance is that religion will die out under socialism. But
   more recently the party itself has begun to put a more positive spin
   on the role of religion. Last April China organised a meeting of
   Buddhist leaders from around the world in the coastal province of
   Zhejiang (it did not, however, invite the Dalai Lama, Tibet's exiled
   spiritual leader). The event was given considerable prominence in the
   official media. The theme, "A harmonious world begins in the mind",
   echoed the party's recent propaganda drive concerning the need for a
   "harmonious society". It implied just what Mr Pan had suggested-- that
   the opium Marx was talking about should be seen as a benign spiritual
   salve. In October the party's Central Committee issued a document on
   how to build a harmonious society, arguing that religion could play a
   "positive role".

   The party's change of tone coincides with its recent efforts to revive
   traditional culture as a way of giving China, in its state of rapid
   economic and social flux, a bit more cohesion. The term "harmonious
   society", which in recent months has become a party mantra, sounds in
   Chinese (hexie shehui) like an allusion to classical notions of social
   order in which people do not challenge their role in life and treat
   each other kindly. It is, in effect, a rejection of the Marxist notion
   of class struggle.

   Officials are now encouraging a revival of the study of Confucianism,
   a philosophy condemned by Mao as "feudal" and which can be
   quasi-religious. Since 2004 China has sponsored dozens of "Confucius
   Institutes" around the world, including America and Europe, to promote
   the study of Chinese language and culture.

   In the countryside the revival of traditional values has needed little
   encouragement. Clan shrines, where ancestors are worshipped, have
   sprung up in many rural areas, particularly in prosperous coastal and
   southern regions. The revival of clan identity (in many villages a
   substantial minority, if not a majority, of inhabitants have the same
   surname, which they trace back to a common ancestor) has had a
   profound impact on village politics. Those elected as village leader
   often owe much of their authority to a senior position in the clan
   hierarchy. Control of the ancestral shrine confers enormous power. It
   is often clan chiefs, rather than party officials, who mediate
   disputes. The shrine will lend money for business ventures--so long as
   the recipient has the right name.

   Where Christianity is a feminist issue

   Ironically, the growth of clan power has helped to fuel the growth of
   Christianity in some parts of the countryside. In a village in the
   eastern province of Shandong, the wife of a former party secretary was
   a Protestant who attended prayer meetings with her female friends.
   Their religious enthusiasm was apparently fuelled by the subordinate
   role of women in the clan. A married woman is expected to revere only
   her husband's ancestors but is excluded from his clan hierarchy. The
   fast growing house-church communities often disapprove of ancestor
   worship, thus attracting women who feel fettered by clan strictures.

   The parlous state of China's health-care system has also given a
   powerful boost to religion. Falun Gong owed much of its success in the
   1990s to claims that it could heal without the need for medicine
   (cash-strapped state-run hospitals usually sell medicines to patients
   at inflated prices in order to boost their revenues). In the village
   of Donglu in Hebei Province, about 140km south of Beijing, Catholic
   nuns have set up a three-storey clinic where they offer ophthalmic,
   dental and pediatric services for what they say is a fifth of the
   price of government-run clinics or private ones run for profit. A
   picture of Jesus is pasted to the wall in the operating theatre.

   An apparition of Mary is said to have occurred in Donglu in 1900 when
   local Catholics were fighting off an assault by members of the
   fanatical Boxer cult trying to destroy their church. This has made the
   village a site of great devotion for Catholics. Every May for the past
   decade, the police have cordoned off Donglu to prevent thousands of
   Catholic pilgrims making their way to the village to celebrate the
   feast of Mary. Many of the pilgrims are loyal to an underground church
   which claims closer ties with Rome than the state-approved Catholic
   church. Yet for all Donglu's sensitivity, the local government appears
   content to let Catholics run the hospital, which is a key public
   service.

   Chinese officials are even urging religious organisations to learn
   from Hong Kong, where religious groups run many schools and hospitals.
   In late November, Ye Xiaowen, the head of the State Administration of
   Religious Affairs which oversees the five officially recognised
   religions, said that religious groups had helped reinforce social
   stability in the former British colony with their contribution to
   public services. The Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, who
   visited China in October, wrote afterwards in the Times that there was
   now a sense in China that civil society needed religion, with its
   motivated volunteers. During his trip he remarked on an "astonishing
   and quite unpredictable explosion" in Christian numbers in China in
   recent years.

   The party still mouths its alarmist rhetoric about what it says are
   foreign efforts to use religion as a means of undermining the party's
   grip on power. Yet the appointment of Pope Benedict XVI, following the
   death in 2005 of John Paul II who was seen by China as a more die-hard
   anti-communist, has encouraged tentative efforts by China to restore
   the ties with the Vatican that were severed in 1951.

   Last month the Vatican decided to appoint a commission to handle
   Chinese relations. But progress has been far from smooth. On November
   30th, much to the Vatican's annoyance, China's state-backed Catholic
   church appointed a bishop without the Vatican's prior approval for the
   third time that year. Since 2000 China had done so only with the
   Vatican's tacit assent. In August, however, China released a bishop
   loyal to the underground church, An Shuxin, who had been arrested a
   decade earlier after leading celebrations of the feast of Mary in
   Donglu.

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                   Worshipping behind a shield of incense

   An even more tentative rapprochement is under way with the Dalai Lama.
   Since 2002, China has held five rounds of talks with his
   representatives, most recently last February. But China retains
   profound fears that the Dalai Lama's real intention is to separate
   Tibet, and adjoining areas, from China (see [4]article).
   Notwithstanding the government's suspicions, Tibetan Buddhism has
   acquired a certain chic in Chinese cities in recent years, with some
   urbanites regarding it as spiritually more pure than Chinese-style
   Buddhism, which has strong links to the government.

   Within its own ranks, the party knows that some members practise
   religion even though this is against the party's rules. Falun Gong
   claimed many adherents among party members in the 1990s. In the
   countryside, party secretaries routinely take part in religious
   ceremonies. Mr Wang at the Black Dragon is not a party member, but in
   other villages in the region temple chiefs double up as village party
   bosses. If the party is still trying to keep its members atheist, it
   is fighting a losing battle.

   One result of allowing religion to play a bigger role in providing
   education could be that the party finds its efforts to inculcate its
   ideology among the nation's youth becoming ever more frustrated. In
   Hongliutan, the temple-sponsored middle school attracts many boarders
   from the town--a reversal of the normal flow of village pupils to the
   towns. Thanks to the temple's sponsorship, the middle school's fees
   are half of what they would be at a government school, teachers say.
   With this sort of discount, the popularity and influence of the Black
   Dragon, and other such spiritual beasts, seems certain to spread.


   Indonesia has some worrying radicals but it seems to be following
   Turkey, with Islamists moderating as they get closer to power

                                                                   Magnum

                                   Magnum


   IS INDONESIA, the most populous Muslim-majority country, undergoing
   creeping Islamisation? It is not hard to assemble enough recent
   evidence to give Western Islamophobes goosebumps. In late December a
   mob attacked and burned a prayer house in West Java belonging to
   Ahmadiyah, a sect deemed heretical by some mainstream Islamic
   scholars. Earlier in the month the country's Christian leaders
   complained that Muslim radicals, helped by local officials, had
   carried out a string of attacks on churches. Ten Muslim militants were
   jailed for attacks on Christians on Sulawesi island, including the
   beheading of three schoolgirls. In late November the religious-affairs
   ministry barred a liberal Egyptian scholar, Nasr Hamid Abu Zayd (who
   calls the Koran a "cultural product"), from public speaking in
   Indonesia.

   Behind many recent incidents is a vigilante group, the Islam
   Defenders' Front (FPI), which in September assaulted bars, cafs and
   hotels in Bogor, near Jakarta, accusing them of violating Ramadan.
   Another rising radical force is the Indonesian chapter of
   Hizb-ut-Tahrir, which wants a caliphate to rule the whole Muslim
   world. Last August it gathered perhaps 90,000 supporters in a Jakarta
   stadium. Its leaders condemned democracy on the basis that sovereignty
   lies in God's hands, not the people's. A not dissimilar attack on
   pluralism was made in a hardline fatwa issued in 2005 by the
   Indonesian Ulemas Council (MUI). This same semi-official body recently
   demanded the banning of the liberal Egyptian scholar.

   In 2006 a poll found that one in ten Indonesians supported terrorist
   attacks like the 2002 Bali bombings if intended to "protect the
   faith". Jemaah Islamiah (JI), the terror group behind the Bali
   attacks, is still running several dozen pesantren (boarding schools),
   putting who knows what into impressionable teenage heads. The Bali
   bombers are due to be executed in the next few weeks, possibly
   triggering a backlash by radicals.

   This all sounds worrying. But Indonesia is a huge, varied and complex
   place, and the radicals--even though some have a semi-official
   platform--are a small and not very influential minority. Contrary
   evidence abounds: liberals as well as radicals are making inroads.
   They have won a big battle over a "pornography" law that Islamists
   proposed in 2006. It would have banned bikinis and short skirts, for
   non-Muslim women too, and prohibited the Hindu minority's traditional
   dances. But a public outcry forced lawmakers to strike out all the
   controversial bits--and it still has not passed in parliament. Two new
   anti-terrorist police squads have made much progress in arresting and
   breaking up JI's leadership. There have been no attacks on foreign
   targets for two years.

   As Indonesia democratised after the fall of the (secular) Suharto
   regime in 1998, local authorities gained autonomy and became directly
   elected. Many seized the opportunity to pass sharia-based laws,
   stoking fears of Islamisation. However, Greg Fealy, an Australian
   expert on Indonesian Islam, says these laws, though successful in
   winning votes for the local politicians pushing them, have usually had
   little practical impact. He recently revisited one such district,
   Tasikmalaya, where he found "there were more schoolgirls wearing the
   headscarf but just as much gambling, prostitution and drinking as
   before."

   The formerly separatist region of Aceh was allowed, under a peace pact
   with the rebels, to introduce strict sharia. The move was popular at
   first, says Sidney Jones of the International Crisis Group, a
   think-tank, but there was widespread revulsion when the authorities
   started publicly whipping miscreants. As a result the religious police
   were drastically reined in. Overall, Indonesians seem to prefer the
   idea of living under "God's law" to the practice of it. Indonesian
   Islam has always been distinct from the Middle Eastern kind, infusing
   influences from Hinduism and other religions. This will make it hard
   for fundamentalists to get far, says Muhammad Hikam, a political
   consultant.

   Whereas a relatively small number of fiery militants and
   fundamentalists get most attention, Mr Hikam says that liberal Islamic
   scholars have successfully broken the link between religious piety and
   political Islam. Indonesians seeking a more overt expression of their
   faith, as many do nowadays, can still believe in separation of mosque
   and state. As the 2009 presidential and parliamentary elections
   approach, secular parties have been attracting voters by creating
   Islamic--but not Islamist--wings. The in-phrase, says Mr Fealy, is
   Islam Lunak, "soft Islam". Pollsters are telling politicians that it
   helps to add a mild religious tinge to speeches about social justice
   and anti-corruption. But radical stuff, like preaching an Islamic
   state, is a turn-off.

   Indonesia's two biggest Muslim organisations are Nahdlatul Ulama
   (NU)--whose long-time leader, Abdurrahman Wahid was president of
   Indonesia in 1999-2001--and Muhammadiyah, which together claim around
   70m members. They indeed used to call for an Islamic state. Nowadays
   Masdar Farid Mas'udi, a senior NU figure, says all they mean by an
   "Islamic" state is a just and prosperous one. In some ways the two
   bodies have come to resemble Europe's mainstream Christian churches:
   "Catholic" NU stresses traditional rites and the authority of
   religious leaders, whereas "Protestant" Muhammadiyah stresses the
   primacy of scripture. As with Catholics and Protestants it is family
   tradition, rather than theology, that usually determines which group
   one belongs to. Both now accept Indonesia's secular founding creed,
   pancasila, which preaches religious tolerance (though you are supposed
   to believe in God).

   Moderate success

   Several of the country's political parties began life as the political
   wings of religious movements such as NU and Muhammidiyah. But the
   parties and their parent bodies have drifted apart, even as all have
   mellowed. In recent elections a more religiously conservative group,
   Prosperous Justice (PKS), has gained votes--but polls now show its
   support slumping. One reason is that it backed the pornography law and
   has suffered in the backlash against it.

   Another, admits Zulkieflimansyah, a senior PKS parliamentarian, is
   that it has joined the (secular) coalition of President Susilo Bambang
   Yudhoyono. Its popularity has suffered because of tough policies such
   as cutting fuel subsidies. Mr Zulkieflimansyah sees his party as
   undergoing a desirable process of moderation as it "encounters
   reality". PKS--like longer-established Muslim parties before it--is
   now having to ditch the fire and brimstone to transcend minority
   appeal. Rising younger figures in the party, like him, are more
   comfortable with this than its older generation, who studied in the
   Middle East. In general, the country's larger Muslim parties are
   echoing Turkey's ruling AK party--ditching Islamism while still
   appealing to the pious. Smaller ones still holding to a hard line may
   fare badly in 2009: Mr Fealy reckons that in 200 regional elections in
   the past two-and-a-half years not a single "sectarian" Muslim
   candidate has won.

   Indonesia is, overall, edging away from radical Islamism. But the
   trend is not irreversible, and the authorities must avoid fostering
   fundamentalists by pandering to them. The MUI (the council of mullahs)
   and the FPI (the vigilantes) provide a lesson: both were created, for
   temporary reasons of expediency, by the Suharto regime but both have
   lingered to haunt its democratic successors. Mr Yudhoyono now seems to
   be trying to channel the MUI's radical enthusiasm into issuing fatwas
   against "deviant" Islamic sects like Ahmadiyah. But this only
   encourages the FPI to take up its cudgels.

   Other, more important ways to make sure Indonesia stays on the path to
   democratic pluralism are to keep the economy growing and to boost
   sluggish efforts at reforming graft-ridden public institutions. High
   unemployment provides recruits for communal violence like that in
   Sulawesi--whether or not religion is the spark that ignites the
   tinder. Poverty, combined with disgust at corrupt officialdom, push
   some people towards the Utopian promises of groups such as
   Hizb-ut-Tahrir. In Indonesia, unlike most Muslim countries, the
   ideological struggle between various forms of Islam is being fought
   largely by democratic means. The violent and the intolerant are still
   at the margins and, while the country's steady progress persists, look
   likely to stay there.


   More sex please, we're Chinese cinema-goers

                                                                 ImageNet

                                  ImageNet

   IN A country awash with pirated films featuring explicit sex and
   violence, China's prudish censors risk irrelevance. Their heavy-handed
   treatment of two recent films has sparked a lively debate about
   whether cinemas should at last be allowed to show something racier.

   At present, films deemed unsuitable for children may not be shown to
   adults either. But the censors are under attack. Critics include Gong
   Li, a famous actress and government adviser, who last March appealed
   for a rating system that would give adults more choice. Complaints
   have mounted following the removal of sex scenes from "Lust, Caution",
   a spy thriller by a Taiwan-born Oscar-winning director, Ang Lee, and
   the outright banning this month of "Lost in Beijing", a sexually
   explicit drama by a Chinese director, Li Yu.

   The internet and rampant film piracy mean censors' cuts do not go
   unnoticed. Chinese internet users can readily find websites showing
   the expurgated parts of "Lust, Caution". Uncensored bootleg copies are
   peddled on the streets. The rapid growth of overseas tourism
   frustrates the censors too. The press reports that some Chinese travel
   agents have been offering trips to the cinema to see "Lust, Caution"
   uncut as part of their Hong Kong tour packages.

   The censors initially approved the showing of "Lost in Beijing",
   albeit in a heavily censored form. But just over a month after the
   film's debut in China, officials changed their minds. They accused the
   film company of circulating the censored sex scenes on the internet
   (the filmmakers blamed pirates) and banned the Beijing-based company
   from making films for the next two years.

   Officials have mentioned the possibility of eventually introducing a
   film-rating system, but they appear in no hurry. Communist Party
   conservatives abhor the idea of condoning explicit sex. One Beijing
   newspaper reported last year that officials were worried that a rating
   system would make it more difficult to curb the distribution in China
   of foreign films, many of which fail to meet current censorship
   standards.

   A quixotic attempt by a graduate student in Beijing, Dong Yanbin, to
   sue the censors for cutting the sex scenes out of "Lust, Caution"
   resulted in a predictable brush-off by a low-level court in the city.
   It said that the case could not be accepted unless the student could
   submit an uncensored version for comparison. Mr Dong prudently
   refrained from offering the court a pirated copy.


   Cheerful news from a sad land

   ALONGSIDE the barbed-wire fence of Tuol Sleng, the Khmers Rouges'
   former interrogation and torture centre in Cambodia's capital,
   air-conditioned tourist buses drop off clumps of prosperous-looking
   Europeans and East Asians. They shuffle past the rows of tiny cells,
   some of which have rusting shackles still in place. After a room of
   glass cabinets displaying the skulls of the Khmers Rouges' victims,
   they reach a tacky souvenir shop, selling T-shirts, trinkets and
   plastic flip-flops labelled "Pol Pot sandals", after the regime's late
   tyrant.

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

                           Tourism can be torture

   In 1975-78, around 10,000 souls suffered unspeakable torments at Tuol
   Sleng. Nowadays, as a "genocide museum", it is a prime attraction in
   the country's booming tourist industry. Until a few years ago, almost
   the only tourists Cambodia got were the fairly small numbers taking
   day-trips to the massive Angkor Wat temple complex in the north. Now
   visitors pour in to the capital, to the seaside resort of
   Sihanoukville and even, now that the roads are being improved, to the
   little-explored countryside. Sihanoukville's airport reopened last
   month to its first scheduled flights since the 1980s and the country's
   moribund railways are to be restored.

   In 1993, as United Nations-sponsored elections signalled the end of
   the civil war that followed the Khmer Rouge regime's collapse,
   Cambodia got only 154,000 foreign visitors. Last year there were 1.7m,
   up 20% on the previous year, and they spent some $1.4 billion, or
   around twice the government's entire tax revenues. A fair chunk of
   this money is trickling down on to the bustling streets of Phnom Penh,
   whose tuk-tuk drivers are doubling their basic fare (for rich-looking
   foreigners) to $2.

   Everything from construction to financial services is booming too.
   Cambodia's clothing factories continue to defy predictions that
   competition from China would kill them. Most important, agriculture,
   which employs two-thirds of the country's workers, is powering ahead,
   encouraged by strong export demand from Cambodia's also-booming big
   neighbour, Vietnam.

   When a bumper harvest boosted Cambodia's growth rate to 13.5% in 2005,
   this was seen as an aberration caused by freak weather rather than any
   lasting improvement in productivity. However, a report from the IMF
   this week shows that farm output has continued rising, and last year's
   overall economic growth was far better than expected, at 10.5%.

   The report forecasts a continuing boom this year, with perhaps 9%
   growth. Better seeds and wider use of fertilisers are helping farmers
   reap more from their rice paddies, says John Nelmes, the IMF's
   representative in Phnom Penh. They are also successfully diversifying
   into other cash crops. "This is the type of growth that brings
   immediate benefit to the poor," he says. Last year the Fund forgave
   the $82m the country owed it, some of which will be redirected towards
   improved irrigation.

   Cambodia is slowly but, it seems, surely dragging itself up from a
   very low base. Perhaps a quarter of its entire population died under
   the Pol Pot regime, including most of its educated people. The
   ineffectiveness of its government is a result of the dire shortage of
   capable people as well as of endemic corruption. Education, health
   services and basic sanitation are still lacking in rural provinces.
   Child labour and child prostitution are widespread. But fast economic
   growth is spreading cheer across the country, from the trendy bistros
   of Phnom Penh's riverfront right out to the impoverished countryside.
   And things could get brighter still: substantial oil and gas reserves
   have recently been found off Cambodia's coasts. The huge potential
   revenues from these could sustain the boom for years to come--so long
   as they are spent wisely.


   World powers suck up to the junta


   THE paranoia, secrecy and all-round villainy of the generals who run
   Myanmar (Burma) provide fertile ground for conspiracy theorists. Last
   month Myanmar restored diplomatic ties with North Korea. On May 15th,
   Russia said it was reviving a stalled plan to sell the country a small
   nuclear reactor. A few years ago, Abdul Qadeer Khan, Pakistan's
   notorious nuclear proliferator, reportedly visited the junta. Join the
   dots and a scary picture emerges: they must be making nukes.

   Entertaining though they are, such theories fall apart on closer
   examination. A new paper by a Myanmar analyst, Andrew Selth, dismisses
   the idea that the junta could produce nuclear bombs in the next
   decade. They lack the resources, expertise and even desire to build
   them: for all the regime's wickedness, it has been a consistent
   opponent of proliferation. The small Russian research reactor may
   achieve little besides satisfying the Burmese generals' desire for
   "prestigious" bits of technology. An earlier paper by Mr Selth
   debunked claims that China is building military bases along Myanmar's
   coast, from which to menace India and dominate the Indian Ocean. The
   xenophobic Burmese regime is too suspicious of China to give it a
   military presence on its turf.

   What really is happening is that China, Russia and another would-be
   great power, India, are scrabbling to do deals with Myanmar's regime.
   Like vultures eyeing carrion, they are salivating over the benighted
   country's rich natural resources. The Burmese generals are in the
   happy position of setting competing powers against one another, while
   enlisting their help in resisting pressure to restore democracy. In
   January, Russia and China--both of which have signed big oil and gas
   deals with Myanmar--vetoed America's proposed censure of the Burmese
   regime in the United Nations Security Council.

   India used to join the West in demanding democratic change. But the
   rumours about Chinese military bases, plus India's own thirst for
   energy, made it forget its principles and start wooing Burmese
   generals with guns and money. This all takes place behind a figleaf of
   "constructive engagement". The junta was said to have been
   dissatisfied with cheap Chinese arms, so India's sales of weapons,
   said to range from artillery to reconnaissance aircraft, will have
   been most welcome.

   The Chinese know they are unlikely to get to use Myanmar as a military
   platform. But by developing the country's oil and gas fields, and by
   building pipelines to Myanmar's Indian Ocean ports, they hope to
   reduce their vulnerability to a blockade of the Malacca Strait,
   through which they import much of their oil.

   However, as India is learning, Burmese generals are unreliable. Two
   Indian energy firms and a South Korean one have spent heavily on
   developing an offshore gas field in Myanmar, only to be
   unceremoniously dumped now that the Chinese have come along waving a
   larger cheque.

   On May 27th the house arrest of Myanmar's pro-democracy leader, Aung
   San Suu Kyi, is due to expire--but the regime is widely expected to
   extend it instead. America and the European Union recently renewed
   sanctions against the junta but neither the West's tough approach nor
   "constructive engagement" has budged the regime. With so many big
   powers slavering to do business with it, the chances of change look as
   bleak as ever.


   Tourists bring back tales of life in Kim Jong Il's grim theme park

                                                                   Corbis

                                   Corbis

                  All of Kim's horses and all of Kim's men


   GLOBAL capitalism has worked many wonders, but where in the free world
   can one see 10,000 children dancing in synchronisation, dressed as
   eggs? Such weirdness makes North Korea, a basket-case state, a must
   for a certain sort of backpacker. Tourist visas have been available
   for years; there is even a Lonely Planet chapter on the country. Some
   2,000 Westerners will visit in 2007--a tiny number, but about four
   times the total in 2002.

   Tours are tightly marshalled so that only highlights such as the "Mass
   Games" performance, home of the dancing eggs, are widely reported.
   Visitors must normally provide references proving that they are not
   journalists. But details are seeping out: blogs, Facebook groups and
   customisable Google Earth maps have made reporters of everyone and
   offer channels for unauthorised news from the closed country.

   Many travellers harp on the propaganda: blocks of flats are topped
   with neon exhortations to "turn a corner in the economy" and suchlike,
   and murals depict hearty workers striding forward, perhaps trampling a
   star-spangled banner or two as they go. At Pyongyang's "Kaeson Youth
   Funfair"--home of the world's most genuinely frightening
   rollercoaster--the crossbow stall's painted targets are of big-nosed
   American soldiers and glowering Japanese. It seems that the tourist
   board realises the ironic appeal of such things: painted replicas of
   some of the most over-the-top bits of propaganda are for sale, and a
   post office does a roaring trade in stamps depicting mighty fists
   crushing Western imperialist aggressors. (Oddly, there is also a
   Princess Diana commemoration set.)

   The patriotic propaganda mainly seems to be in earnest, however,
   especially where the country's leaders are concerned. Portraits of Kim
   Il Sung, the founder of North Korea, and Kim Jong Il, his son and the
   current leader, still beam down from every street corner. One must not
   fold one's Pyongyang Times if a Kim is on the front page, as is
   invariably the case. Even at the "flower show", a regular stop for
   tourists, the entire plant nursery is dedicated to Kimjongilia and
   Kimilsungia, the leaders' respective blooms.

   Every North Korean citizen sports a plastic lapel badge bearing the
   face of one or other of the Kims. A few years ago it was reported that
   production of Kim Jong Il badges was to cease, and factories were to
   churn out only the Kim Il Sung variety. Now hardly anyone wears a Kim
   junior badge. Similarly, paintings of Kim senior outnumber those of
   his son by two to one, and there are no statues of the latter. Kim the
   younger is instead often depicted by the blood-red Kimjongilia
   begonia. The official explanation is that he is simply a modest sort
   of chap. His unfortunate looks may have something to do with it
   (though many North Korean men diligently copy his exotic bouffant
   hairstyle). Or perhaps he is preparing the ground for a successor?

   Most Westerners are put up in a hotel on a river island, an Alcatraz
   of fun that they may not leave unescorted. To keep curiosity at bay
   there is a swimming-pool, a bowling-alley, a putting-green and two
   saunas (one hot; one seedy). But the hotel also provides a
   vantage-point: photos from the top-floor revolving restaurant give a
   good picture of the bleakness of Pyongyang. Most striking is the
   architectural uniformity. American bombs pulverised the city during
   the Korean War, so not much is more than 50 years old--and hardly
   anything has been built since the early 1990s, so stagnant is the
   economy.

   The rooftop view also provides some encouragement. Dotted about the
   city are several blue-roofed halls, a bit like aircraft hangars.
   Inside, away from the eyes of tourists, are experimental free-trade
   areas, where citizens can buy and sell goods for cash, something
   unheard of until recently. The halls are strictly off-limits for tour
   groups but are humming with locals. Though official tours take in
   monuments, museums and mass dances, it may be that these little hives
   of activity are the most exciting parts of present-day North Korea.


   Stateless and homeless, Myanmar's Muslims have been abandoned by
   everyone


   AS UNREST in Myanmar kindled flickering hopes of political change,
   long-suffering refugees in Bangladesh were glued to their radios. They
   hope for a chance to reclaim their land and their dignity. Sadly, they
   may be waiting in vain. Not only are there scant signs of change from
   the repressive ruling junta. But these are also Rohingyas, members of
   a poor Muslim minority never very welcome at home.

   The junta's persecution of Muslims has been extreme. But anti-Muslim
   sentiments have been simmering for centuries in Burma. The
   dark-skinned Rohingyas, who have more in common physically and
   culturally with Bangladeshis than with most Burmese, have always
   suffered abuse.

   The junta has ostracised them, by refusing full Myanmar citizenship,
   calling them only "residents of Rakhine state". Almost all the roughly
   800,000 Rohingyas today are stateless. The military regime routinely
   presses them into slave labour, severely restricts their rights to
   travel and marry, and denies them access to both medical care and
   education.

   In Sittwe, the capital of Rakhine (formerly Arakan), Rohingyas lead
   desperately poor lives. Those not pressganged into road construction
   at meagre wages live by subsistence farming and fishing. "It's because
   we're Muslim," declares a trishaw driver. He says people give work to
   Buddhists. There are many poor Buddhists in Sittwe too. But the
   perception of unfair treatment lingers amongst Muslims, though some
   made common cause with September's anti-government protesters.

   Rohingyas have been fleeing Myanmar for decades. Many mingle among the
   million or so illegal Burmese migrants living in Thailand. And the
   office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
   has documented 12,000 in Malaysia, but admits there may be twice that
   number. The largest number has fled to Bangladesh. But the
   Bangladeshis have been reluctant hosts. Citing overpopulation and land
   scarcity, successive governments have forcibly repatriated the
   refugees: 250,000 were expelled between 1991 and 1992, and almost as
   many since.

   Since 1992 Bangladesh has refused to grant the Rohingyas refugee
   status. Only two official UNHCR camps now remain near Chittagong. But
   most of those repatriated to the same dire conditions they had fled
   have trickled back to squat in makeshift shelters and camps just
   across the border. Today around 8,000 live in an unofficial camp
   called Tal. Another 200,000 have settled in the surrounding area.

   Tal was born out of Operation Clean Heart, a 2002 crackdown in which
   thousands of Rohingyas were rooted out of local villages. Frido
   Herinckx of Mdecins Sans Frontires, an aid organisation, describes
   how the police threatened local Bangladeshis with prison unless they
   reported on their Burmese neighbours. Instead of returning to Myanmar,
   thousands of homeless Rohingyas regrouped and settled on a
   30-metre-wide stretch of mud along the banks of the Naf River.

   In Tal as many as 12 people are crammed into flimsy shelters patched
   together from reeds and plastic sheets. Floods regularly inundate the
   camp, and local hostility to the incomers often leads to violence.
   Still, most feel that life there is preferable to the daily
   humiliations suffered in Myanmar. "If I can't even say `this house is
   mine,' how can I live there?" asks one 32-year-old man. He says the
   regime confiscated all he had.

   The government in Bangladesh has recently shown signs of softening its
   policies. It plans to move Tal to a drier and more permanent location.
   Aid workers hope the Rohingyas will eventually be granted Bangladeshi
   citizenship. Most Rohingyas say that if democracy is established in
   Myanmar, they will go back. But the junta is not their only enemy.


   Violator becomes arbiter


   FOUR years of intense diplomacy bore fruit on November 30th when the
   Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) awarded
   its rotating chairmanship in 2010 to Kazakhstan. Since the decision,
   made at a meeting in Madrid, Kazakhstan's people have been treated to
   euphoric outbursts by their usually reserved top officials. Kanat
   Saudabayev, the state secretary (government spokesman), credited the
   remarkable achievement above all to the extraordinary wisdom of
   Kazakhstan's people when they elected the "truly God-sent Nursultan
   Nazarbayev" as their president in 1991.

   Such reverence to Kazakhstan's authoritarian head of state may well be
   a precondition of political longevity. But it is hardly what one would
   expect to hear in a country ready to lead a 56-member organisation
   that monitors human rights and elections. Human Rights Watch, a
   lobbying group, said the choice of Kazakhstan would undermine the
   integrity of the OSCE's human-rights principles.

   Indeed, the OSCE itself has so far failed to judge a single election
   in Kazakhstan free and fair. Yet the Kazakhstani leadership has now
   pledged to uphold and to strengthen its principles, in Mr Saudabayev's
   words, "from Vancouver to Vladivostok". Kazakhstan will become the
   first former Soviet republic to chair the OSCE. Dosym Satpayev, an
   independent political analyst, reckons its poor human-rights record
   and spotty democratic credentials were trumped by geopolitical
   calculation and hopes of energy co-operation with the oil-rich
   country.

   Mr Satpayev says that denying Kazakhstan the coveted honour might have
   alienated its leaders and driven it into closer ties with China, with
   which it is already linked through the Shanghai Co-operation
   Organisation, a security forum. Or it might have nudged the country
   even more firmly into the camp of Russia, Kazakhstan's staunchest
   supporter in OSCE decision-making councils. The chairmanship was the
   price paid to keep Kazakhstan on good terms with the West and to avoid
   further antagonising Russia, which is already squabbling with America
   over the course the OSCE should take.

   Whatever happened behind the scenes in Madrid, the political elite in
   Kazakhstan is jubilant that, as it sees it, the country has at last
   been accepted as an equal player in global affairs because of its
   democratic and free-market reforms. However, Marat Tazhin, the foreign
   minister, has stressed the great weight on Kazakhstan's shoulders if
   it is to live up to the OSCE's obligations. He promised a change of
   the election law by 2010 and a freer press. With Kazakhstan facing
   greater international scrutiny, the opposition may at least now have a
   chance to have its voice heard. Even so, Mr Satpayev concludes, "The
   OSCE has won tactically, but lost strategically."


   Scarred by continuing violence, the peace process is in serious
   trouble

   THE arrival of a text message in a political leader's pocket announced
   the latest assassination in the southern Terai plains this week, and
   the news was met with grim exclamations and eye-rolling. Madhav Kumar
   Nepal, leader of a moderate communist party, known as the UML, which
   polled second when Nepal last voted in 1999, does not think anyone is
   going to shoot him. But he will struggle to hold his southern
   constituency if Nepal manages to vote again soon.

   Like most of the country's politicians, Mr Nepal is not yet ready to
   admit that elections scheduled for June are impossible, and will have
   to be delayed until after the monsoon--ie, until October at the
   earliest. But he is willing to discuss this scenario, which most
   people now think is inevitable. The poll, to elect an assembly to
   write a new constitution, is the cornerstone of a peace process
   designed to end a ten-year Maoist insurgency. "Nepal will be entangled
   in complications," he says. "There will be this army, that army,
   creating chaos! A failed government!"

   Many say all this is true already. The southern plains, known as the
   Terai, are home to numerous ethnic-separatist groups with murky links
   to smugglers, bandits and Hindu fundamentalists in India. On March
   21st, supporters of the largest, the Madhesi People's Rights Forum
   (MPRF), killed 29 people, mostly Maoists, near the town of Gaur. The
   victims were raped, burnt, beaten and speared to death. Every day now
   brings news of clashes, bombings, kidnappings and drive-by shootings
   in the Terai.

   A year ago the Maoists were a proscribed "terrorist" organisation, but
   under the peace process they are represented in an interim parliament
   (which their deputies attend with concealed weapons) and consulted on
   government business. Now they say that if the government does not ban
   the MPRF they will wage war to avenge the victims of Gaur.

   Yet one senior official says the government cannot ban the Forum,
   because of the widespread support it enjoys in the Terai. This week,
   he says, the government was aware of several hundred Maoists heading
   into the MPRF's heartland. Besides clashing with Madhesi groups since
   the beginning of the year, the Maoists have repeatedly broken the
   ceasefire in other ways. According to a Western diplomat, around 5,000
   hard-core fighters are hidden outside the United Nations-run camps
   where they are supposed to be confined. Most have enrolled in a new
   goon squad called the Young Communist League. No one believes they
   have surrendered all their weapons. Maoist violence and extortion seem
   as serious as the trouble in Terai. Yet the government and the UN have
   been muted in their criticism.

   At midweek the Maoists were on the brink of joining an interim
   government. The hope is that power will make them act more
   responsibly. But the politicians' hopes of keeping control rest on
   maintaining unity between the seven-party coalition government and the
   Maoists. That will be hard. They blame each other for what is going
   wrong. And to hear the leaders describe one another in private, their
   unity seems as amicable as that of fighting cats trapped in a bag.


   The assassination of Benazir Bhutto seems to assure a turbulent
   election campaign and strengthen the likelihood of an unstable
   government 

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP


   FOR some time Pakistan has been the main contender for the title of
   most dangerous country on earth. Since the murder of Benazir Bhutto on
   December 27th its claim has been strengthened. People are right to be
   worried. But is the forthcoming, postponed election doomed to be a
   violent shambles? And is the country itself doomed to disintegrate,
   fall into the hands of Islamists or lose control of its nuclear
   weapons to jihadists? Not necessarily. In the short run, at least,
   much turns on the rival interpretations of how Miss Bhutto died that
   day in Rawalpindi.

   It went like this. A clean-shaven young man, wearing a white shirt,
   black waistcoat and sun-glasses, presses through the adoring scrimmage
   around Miss Bhutto. Almost within arm's reach of the sports utility
   vehicle from which the twice and would-be future prime minister waves
   to the crowd, as she campaigns for an election due to take place on
   January 8th, he pauses. Behind him is a taller figure, apparently
   bearded, his face shrouded in a white head-dress. Then the
   clean-shaven man points a pistol at Miss Bhutto, and three sharp
   cracks ring out.

   Viewed in slow motion, on a film broadcast by Britain's Channel 4
   three days after the event, Miss Bhutto's trademark white headscarf is
   flipped up, as if by a sudden gust. An instant later two men standing
   on the back of the vehicle duck their heads and Miss Bhutto slumps.
   Swirling chaos ensues, as a suicide-killer, believed to be the
   shrouded youth, pulls the pin from his bomb.

   If genuine, the film seems to corroborate the first official
   description of Miss Bhutto's murder: that she was shot in the head
   just before a suicide-bomber dispatched himself, her killer and about
   20 others. The leaders of Miss Bhutto's Pakistan People's Party (PPP),
   the country's biggest, concur. The party's spokeswoman, Sherry Rehman,
   who was with Miss Bhutto when she died and then bathed her corpse,
   says she saw entry and exit wounds in the head. But the government has
   since changed its version of the killing. It now asserts that Miss
   Bhutto, whose body was buried without an autopsy, was not shot at all;
   she died, according to the new version, as a result of hitting her
   head on the lever of the car's sun-roof while trying to escape the
   blast.

   Baffling, almost irrelevant, as this dispute may seem, it added fuel
   to four days of violent rioting by PPP supporters, mostly in the
   southern province of Sindh, home of the Bhuttos. Indeed many
   Pakistanis, who are deeply mistrustful of the government of President
   Pervez Musharraf, their recently demobbed ruler, consider this
   revision suspicious. It suggests to them that the government is
   somehow blaming Miss Bhutto for her own assassination--or even
   ridiculing her.

   Whatever the truth, the conviction is widespread in Pakistan that the
   government had a hand in killing her. After all, she had accused a
   cabal of army spies and Mr Musharraf's political henchmen of plotting
   to kill her. And that was before a previous attempt on her life, in
   October, in which two suicide blasts killed more than 140 PPP
   supporters during a home-coming rally for her in Karachi. Her return
   that day marked the end of an eight-year self-imposed exile and the
   start of her campaign to serve a third term as prime minister.

   Within hours of Miss Bhutto's death, Sindhis began to rampage. Angry
   mobs tore through every town in the province, burning cars, looting
   shops, screaming in grief for the unrivalled leader of Pakistan's main
   political dynasty. From within high-gated compounds rang the shrill of
   women's screams. In other provinces the response was less histrionic.
   By the time this first frenzy was over, 174 banks, 22 trains and 13
   electoral offices had been looted or set alight. Over 50 people had
   been killed. The government puts the damage at $200m. Other responses
   were more measured, but also discouraging. On December 31st the main
   Karachi stockmarket, a high-performing symbol of the strong economic
   growth of Mr Musharraf's era, opened nearly 4.5% down. The rupee also
   dived, as capital inflows, on which much of the growth has been based,
   dried up like a desert stream.

   For now, the violence has faded, even if the pessimism has yet to
   lift. On January 2nd it was announced that the election would be
   postponed to February 18th, immediately after the month-long Shia
   festival of Muharram, a time associated with mourning. This followed
   much haggling among the political parties. They had started to
   recalculate their electoral prospects even before Miss Bhutto's corpse
   had been interred on December 28th--at a vast Moghul-style mausoleum
   that she had had built for her father, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, another
   former prime minister, executed for supposedly sanctioning the death
   of an opponent. In a country where no party can win an outright
   majority, and the army alternately rigs the elections and seizes
   power, political planning is a perilous enterprise.

   Musharraf opts for Fabian tactics

   In the final months of 2007, however, a fairly solid consensus had
   emerged about the outcome of the election. True, Mr Musharraf's
   blundering efforts to retain the autocratic powers he had seized
   nearly a decade ago had brought political turmoil to Pakistan. But
   rough polling, and an assessment of Mr Musharraf's best interests,
   suggested that the PPP and the former ruling party, the Pakistan
   Muslim League (Q), which is loyal to the old soldier, would emerge as
   the two biggest parties, neither of them with a majority. They might
   then have formed a coalition government, which Miss Bhutto plainly
   hoped to lead.

   That result, minus Miss Bhutto, is now the very best that Mr Musharraf
   can hope for. More likely, say some pundits, is that Pakistanis will
   vote in huge numbers for the PPP, in sympathy for its loss. That might
   give the PPP an outright majority, which is no doubt why Mr
   Musharraf's loyalists were so eager to have the election postponed,
   though their demand was ostensibly to allow time to repair polling
   stations and replenish ballot papers. A sympathy vote could boost
   Pakistan's second party, led by Nawaz Sharif. The main rival in much
   of Punjab, Pakistan's biggest province, to Mr Musharraf's loyalists,
   Mr Sharif demanded that the vote be held on time. But the Election
   Commission, supposedly independent but in fact controlled by Mr
   Musharraf, ruled that this was impossible.

   The PPP's new acting leader, Asif Zardari, who is Miss Bhutto's
   widower, will act as regent while his co-leader, the couple's
   19-year-old son Bilawal, completes his studies at Oxford University.
   Mr Zardari had also wanted the vote to be held as planned. In agreeing
   to a delay, he is likely to have won some quid pro quo for the PPP.
   Yet Mr Zardari has meanwhile accused the former ruling party of
   killing his wife, and thereby made clear that the PPP is not to be
   trifled with. With a reputation for corruption and thuggery, earned
   during Miss Bhutto's two terms in power, he has reminded his main
   rivals that the PPP currently controls the streets.

   It is a point worth making. A long delay, the PPP reasonably feared,
   would increase Mr Musharraf's agents' ability to manipulate the
   election in his favour. They have, after all, rigged all the four
   previous polls presided over by their master, who has also staged two
   coups. On December 31st PPP officials announced that Miss Bhutto had
   been due to hand a 200-page dossier on Mr Musharraf's latest
   vote-rigging schemes to some American congressmen.

   Meanwhile, the dispute continues over who killed Miss Bhutto. The
   government says it was al-Qaeda. At least, that is the label it has
   attached to the alleged culprit, a Taliban warlord called Baitullah
   Mehsud, who holds sway over a terrorist haven along the north-western
   frontier with Afghanistan. Mr Zardari, like most Pakistanis, scoffs at
   this. "I think soon the chickens are going to lay their eggs and we
   will blame them on al-Qaeda," he says. "Al-Qaeda has nothing to fear.
   Why would they fear us? Are they our political opponents?"

   Mr Mehsud has denied having anything to do with the killing--in fact,
   he has called for an international investigation into the atrocity,
   though he may have to be satisfied with the announcement that a team
   of British detectives will assist with an investigation into Miss
   Bhutto's death. He is certainly capable of the crime. Last month it
   was reported that he had been elected leader of Tehrik-e-Taliban
   Pakistan, a new association of tribally based Islamist militias in the
   frontier area. Flush with Afghan drug money, and a dream of global
   jihad, these groups have gained unprecedented power during America's
   six-year war on terror. At America's expense, estimated at around $5
   billion, 100,000 Pakistani troops have been sent to quell them. Yet
   they now control a vast and spreading swathe of territory. Mr Mehsud's
   fief, in particular, is reported to have become a hub for Pakistani
   and foreign jihadist terrorists. Intelligence agents say they include
   members of Jaish-e-Muhammad, a Pakistani outfit formerly trained by
   the army to fight in Indian-held Kashmir. This group is alleged to
   have supplied dozens of suicide-bombers for attacks in Pakistan in
   recent months.

   One more unexplained murder

   Miss Bhutto may have been killed by the same men. A Western-educated
   woman, who applauded America's war on terror, she was presumably not
   to their taste. And indeed, shortly before she returned to Pakistan,
   Mr Mehsud was alleged to be plotting to kill her. Similarly, within
   hours of Miss Bhutto's assassination, the government released what it
   claimed was a recording of Mr Mehsud discussing the atrocity over the
   telephone. It features a voice, allegedly Mr Mehsud's, asking who had
   killed Miss Bhutto, then rejoicing to learn that the killers were his
   own men. To some disinterested listeners, however, this sounded
   phoney. Surely Mr Mehsud would have kept closer control over such an
   audacious and meticulous ambush? Moreover, on the tape he is heard
   giving what appears to be a precise description of his position. Why,
   then, had the army apparently not tried to kill him?

   For that matter, it is not entirely obvious that Mr Mehsud would have
   wanted Miss Bhutto dead. There are richer jihadist prizes in
   Pakistan--not least Mr Musharraf, whose removal Ayman al-Zawahiri,
   Osama bin Laden's deputy, has called for. Mr al-Zawahiri had not
   bothered to denounce Miss Bhutto, a discredited female opposition
   politician. Yet the campaign to dispatch Miss Bhutto was carried out
   with an unusual thoroughness and persistence. On the eve of an
   election that her party had a fair hope of winning, it is not hard to
   imagine that Miss Bhutto's assassination was politically motivated.

   Despite the investigation that Mr Musharraf has promised, the truth
   may never out. Pakistan's political history is crammed with
   unexplained killings. They include the violent deaths of Miss Bhutto's
   two brothers, Murtaza and Shah Nawaz, whose bodies also lie in the
   family's meringue-like mausoleum in Garhi Khuda Bakhsh. (Mr Zardari
   was charged with ordering the death of Murtaza in a storm of police
   gunfire in 1996. He was later exonerated.) Another mystery surrounds
   the death of General Zia ul Haq, the dictator who toppled, then
   hanged, Miss Bhutto's father. One day in 1988 the general's plane,
   which was also carrying America's ambassador to Pakistan, fell to
   earth.

   Bring on the doomsayers

   On December 28th thousands of sombre men, black scarves bound around
   their arms, converged on Garhi Khuda Bakhsh. Many had served the lofty
   Bhuttos. Passing the charred carcass of a train and several gutted
   government buildings, they streamed in to see Miss Bhutto buried,
   shouting "Hang Musharraf!" as they came. "This is civil war. It is
   worse than Iraq," said one mourner, Zulfikar Ali Mirza, a black-clad
   PPP stalwart with an assault rifle wedged beside the seat of his car.
   "I see no more map of Pakistan. She was the only link between the four
   provinces. Now there is no future for Pakistan."

   It is Pakistan's particular misfortune that its progress tends to be
   measured against exaggerated doomsday prophecies such as this. Three
   are most popular. The first, which is as old as Pakistan itself,
   decrees that the place will fragment (history is not encouraging: born
   of partition in 1947, the country lost its eastern component in 1971).
   The other two are more recent. One is that Pakistan, like neighbouring
   Iran, will fall to Islamists--perhaps even of Mr Mehsud's vicious
   kind. A related fear is that terrorists will get hold of the country's
   nuclear arsenal. All three nightmares are very unlikely in the short
   term, but may be increasingly possible.

   To be clear, Pakistan is bitterly divided. Punjab dominates the
   economy and the army. In other parts of the country military
   rule--which Pakistanis have known for over half their history--is
   considered Punjabi rule. Every decade or so, in Sindh, Baluchistan and
   North-West Frontier Province (NWFP), Punjabi troops are dispatched to
   quash an insurgency. The army is currently attempting this task in
   both Baluchistan and NWFP, on several fronts. NWFP has always been so
   rebellious that no Pakistani government has dared to call it by its
   logical name, Pushtunistan, for fear of rallying the Pushtun tribesmen
   who live there. But the army is still quite strong enough to prevent
   any chunk of Pakistan from splitting off.

   The other prophecies are more sobering--given the current security
   crisis on the Afghan frontier, and a history of institutional Islamism
   within the army itself. The American-backed campaign in north-western
   Pakistan has gone badly. It has almost certainly spawned much more
   radicalism and terror than it has ended. Baker Atyani, head of the
   al-Arabiya television office in Islamabad, says he receives two or
   three videotapes every week from local and foreign jihadist groups
   along the frontier--many more than he can broadcast. Clearly, Pakistan
   has a long-term problem with militancy. And the prevalence of jihadist
   sympathies within the army also remains a concern. For whatever
   reason, many soldiers on the frontier are demoralised: at least
   several hundred have surrendered to untrained bandits. Nonetheless,
   despite these concerns, a strong majority of Pakistanis remain
   moderate.

   It is right to worry about these, perfectly imaginable, calamities.
   And yet, again and again, governments at home and abroad, civilian and
   military, have let such nightmares distract them from dealing with
   Pakistan's pressing political problems. Force, the army's preferred
   solution, is invariably insufficient to provide solutions. For
   example, so long as marginalised Baluchis, whose vast western province
   is Pakistan's richest in minerals but poorest per person, do not
   receive a fair share of state spending, they will periodically rise
   up. Instead of slapping them down--as Mr Bhutto did in the 1970s, and
   Mr Musharraf does now--the government will one day have to give them a
   fair deal.

   Even in easier times, improving Pakistan's government would be a huge
   undertaking. To get Pakistanis to place the slightest trust in their
   state may take decades. And even the most sensible policies may fall
   short in the end. Pakistan is in a dangerous and unstable
   neighbourhood. It has also been miserably served by its politicians,
   and today the choice before the voters looks as bad as ever before.

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

                           Cast votes, not stones

   Yet it is at least abundantly clear that Pakistan's rotten politics
   and vagabond institutions will never be put right by an army dictator,
   including an unreformed Mr Musharraf. On seizing power in 1999, he
   promised to reduce corruption, fight extremism, strengthen civil
   institutions and do a host of other good things. In one or two
   respects, he has scored impressive hits: on his watch, for example,
   Pakistan has enjoyed steady economic policies and some useful reforms.
   But, like all dictators, Mr Musharraf has increasingly subordinated
   his good intentions to his wish to cling to power, with disastrous
   results.

   After his second coup, last November, Mr Musharraf abolished the press
   freedoms of which he had long boasted. He also sacked 60 potentially
   disobedient judges, and appointed many biddable idiots in their
   places. The damage thus done to Pakistan's judiciary, which was rotten
   to begin with, will take years to undo. He has also quietly dropped
   the architect of Pakistan's impressive economic performance, his
   former prime minister, Shaukat Aziz.

   No more generals, please

   Given this record, it is hard to imagine what beneficial role Mr
   Musharraf might yet play, whether he is in uniform or not. He speaks
   of his desire for a "democratic transition". The first test of his
   sincerity will be whether Pakistanis are allowed a fair election next
   month. Then all eyes will be on the kind of government that emerges.
   In a country in a state of shock, predictions are perhaps unwise. Yet
   it seems as likely as not that the PPP and its pro-Musharraf rivals
   will, after all, form a government together, though it is unclear who
   might lead it.

   Disappointing though she was, tainted by corruption and only dubiously
   democratic (she was "life chairperson" of her party), Miss Bhutto was
   her country's only national leader. Pakistan may not have realised how
   much it would miss her, until now she is gone.


                                                            Claudio Munoz

                               Claudio Munoz

   Despite worries about the damage corruption does to the Communist
   Party's reputation, efforts to stamp it out remain half-hearted


   CORRUPTION, Chinese officials often fret out loud, could destroy the
   Communist Party--such is the popular anger it provokes and so at odds
   is it with the ideals the party espouses. Yet frequent crackdowns and
   the occasional toppling of sleazy officials appear to have little
   impact. Nor, many fear, will a new anti-corruption agency, due to be
   set up this year. As they jockey for position before a crucial party
   gathering in the autumn, China's leaders are in no mood for serious
   reform.

   In Shanghai and Beijing, where big corruption scandals involving top
   officials have been exposed in recent months, new cases of alleged
   high-level wrongdoing are still coming to light. In Beijing the
   state-owned media reported last week that Zhou Liangluo, the chief of
   Haidian district, home to many of the city's universities and
   high-tech companies, had been detained for allegedly engaging in shady
   property deals. In Shanghai it emerged earlier this month that Yin
   Guoyuan, a former deputy head of the housing bureau, was being
   investigated for similar reasons.

   Despite the anxious rhetoric, the party is not on the brink of
   collapse. But the scandals of the past few months have stoked debate
   within its ranks and more widely in China about the need for better
   ways of dealing with corruption. Officials have been studying
   anti-corruption agencies elsewhere, notably in Hong Kong and
   Singapore, which rate highly in regional league tables of clean
   government. Singapore's authoritarian tendencies and Hong Kong's lack
   of democracy make them, for some Chinese officials, especially
   appealing models.

   In the build-up to a five-yearly party congress due later this year,
   Chinese leaders have been stressing the need to build a "harmonious
   society". Making officials more honest is portrayed as vital to this
   endeavour. The congress will be the first presided over by Hu Jintao,
   state president as well as head of the party, as China's paramount
   leader. It will be an important opportunity for him to promote his
   supporters and show what he has achieved in five years in power. But
   when it comes to tackling corruption, Mr Hu is hesitant about changing
   the system.

   Few are impressed by plans revealed in February to set up a Corruption
   Prevention Bureau. Its remit remains unclear, but Ren Jianming of
   Tsinghua University in Beijing believes it will not have investigative
   powers. It will probably report to the Ministry of Supervision,
   responsible for standards in the bureaucracy, or directly to the State
   Council, China's cabinet. But Mr Ren says the party's own
   anti-corruption agency, the Central Disciplinary Inspection Commission
   (CDIC), will still decide which top officials should be investigated
   and punished.

   Officials say that the new bureau will help China fulfil its
   obligations under the United Nations' 2003 convention against
   corruption, which requires signatories to have a corruption-prevention
   agency. The convention is vague about what this body should do, but
   says it should be able to operate "free from any undue influence".
   Chinese officials have not spelled out how this will be attempted.

   In the past five years, Mr Hu has done little to make the CDIC less
   vulnerable to the whims of party leaders. The CDIC's action last
   September against Shanghai's Communist Party chief, Chen Liangyu, led
   to his arrest, dismissal and suspension from the Politburo for alleged
   misuse of pension funds. But it raised suspicions that Mr Hu was using
   the commission to settle scores with a rival party faction. Mr Chen
   was replaced last month as Shanghai's party chief by Xi Jinping, who
   is close to Mr Hu. Mr Xi, like a sprinkling of other senior Chinese
   officials, is the offspring of one of communist China's founding
   fathers. Such "princelings" are on the rise.

   Some of China's bolder newspapers have hinted that Mr Hu could be
   doing more to clean things up. They have noted that Vietnam--hardly a
   model of clean government--last month issued a decree requiring
   legislators and senior officials to declare their assets. China
   imposes no such burden on legislators; officials are subject only to
   patchily and secretively enforced requirements to report their
   incomes. Officials have brushed aside proposals by some members of
   China's parliament for a law aimed at ensuring better compliance.
   Frustration with official corruption is one reason why most of China's
   high earners ignored a new rule requiring them to fill out personal
   income-tax returns by the beginning of this month.

   Despite an occasional combative streak, the media hardly ever report
   corruption cases without official approval. It was only this month
   that they reported the arrest by investigators last August of Zhang
   Weihua, the deputy head of a state-run lottery intended to raise money
   for sports, including for facilities for next year's Olympic Games in
   Beijing. An audit in 2005 found that the lottery had diverted 558m
   yuan ($72m) into subsidiaries, which paid some of the money as bonuses
   to staff.

   Mr Hu has tweaked the system a bit. In recent months, during a shuffle
   of provincial leadership posts, he managed to ensure that
   discipline-inspection commissions in the provinces are led by CDIC
   officials from Beijing, or by anti-corruption officials from other
   provinces. In the past these roles have usually been filled by
   placemen of the provincial party chiefs, rendering them useless in
   investigating corruption cases involving the top echelons of the
   party. Even so, the impact of the reform may be limited. According to
   the party charter, provincial commissions must still inform local
   party leaders if they plan to investigate them for corruption.

   The prime minister, Wen Jiabao, has been forthright, at least in
   admitting the extent of the problem. At a news conference last month,
   he said that corruption had been getting "more and more serious", a
   departure from the party's usual line that its clean-up is having some
   success. Mr Wen must have bitten his tongue. In the official
   transcript published by the Chinese press, his remarks were more
   cautious: corruption was only "quite serious" in some places and
   departments. The media did report his unoriginal but far-reaching
   suggestion that one remedy would be more political reform. But there
   is little sign that Chinese leaders are eager to pursue that.


   Long before Commodore Perry got there, Japanese castaways and American
   whalers were prising Japan open

                                         Blackburn Museum and Art Gallery

                      Blackburn Museum and Art Gallery

     IF THAT double-bolted land, Japan, is ever to become hospitable, it
     is the whale-ship alone to whom the credit will be due; for already
     she is on the threshold.

     Herman Melville, "Moby Dick", 1851

   The first English-language teacher to come to Japan landed in a tiny
   skiff, but before he did so, Ranald MacDonald pulled the bung from his
   boat in order to half-swamp her, in the hope of winning over locals
   with a story that he had come as someone who had fled the cruel
   tyrannies of a whale-ship captain and then been shipwrecked. The four
   locals who approached by boat, though certainly amazed, were also
   courteous, for they bowed low, stroked their huge beards and emitted a
   throaty rumbling. "How do you do?" MacDonald cheerily replied. This
   meeting took place in tiny Nutsuka Cove on Rishiri Island off Hokkaido
   on July 1st 1848, and a dark basaltic pebble from the cove sits on
   this correspondent's desk as he writes, picked up from between the
   narrow fishing skiffs that even today are pulled up on the beach.

   Rishiri is about as perfect a round volcanic island, perhaps nine
   miles across, as it is possible for a schoolchild to draw. It is also
   just about as far north in Japan proper as it is possible to be: if
   you start climbing the volcano, the coast of Russian Sakhalin comes
   into view. MacDonald took an intentionally oblique route to get into
   closed Japan. And indeed, the locals who approached MacDonald were not
   Japanese at all, but rather the supremely hairy Ainu, whose women
   tattooed their upper lip.

   The Ainu were the original inhabitants of much of northern Japan,
   while related groups had long settled Sakhalin and Kamchatka. One
   19th-century British explorer and naval captain, Henry Craven St John,
   described the fair-skinned Ainu as "something like a strange drop of
   oil in the Ocean, being surrounded by Mongols [including Japanese] yet
   not one of them." But just as European settlers were pushing the
   American frontier westwards--MacDonald himself was born in present-day
   Oregon of Princess Raven, favourite daughter of the Chinook king, and
   a Scottish fur trader with the Hudson's Bay Company--so the Japanese
   were pushing north. Modern-day Hokkaido (literally, the way to the
   northern seas) was then known as Ezo, whose written characters connote
   wildness and barbarity. Today, only vestigial communities of Ainu
   survive.

   Far from fleeing a tyrant, MacDonald had in fact had to plead with a
   concerned captain of the Plymouth, a whaler out of Sag Harbour, New
   York, to be put down in the waters near Japan. MacDonald had an
   insatiable hunger for adventure, and the desire to enter
   Japan--tantalisingly shut to the outside world--had taken a grip on
   him. Both men knew of the risks, but the captain was less inclined to
   discount them. For 250 years, since the Tokugawa shogunate kicked
   Christian missionaries and traders out, only a tightly controlled
   trade with the Netherlands and China was tolerated in the southern
   port of Nagasaki, with a further licence for Koreans elsewhere. Though
   British and Russian ships had from time to time prodded Japan's
   carapace, an edict in 1825 spelled out what would happen to uninvited
   guests "demanding firewood, water and provisions":

     The continuation of such insolent proceedings, as also the
     intention of introducing the Christian religion having come to our
     knowledge, it is impossible to look on with indifference. If in
     future foreign vessels should come near any port whatsoever, the
     local inhabitants shall conjointly drive them away; but should they
     go away peaceably it is not necessary to pursue them. Should any
     foreigners land anywhere, they must be arrested or killed, and if
     the ship approaches the shore it must be destroyed.

   Two decades later the despotic feudalism of the Tokugawa shogunate was
   under greater strain. At home the land had been ravaged by floods and
   earthquakes, and famines had driven the dispossessed and even samurai
   to storm the rice warehouses of the daimyo, the local lords. Abroad,
   Western powers were making ominous inroads. After the opium war of
   1840-42 China ceded Hong Kong to Britain. Meanwhile, thanks to a
   growth in whaling and trade with China, the number of distressed
   Western vessels appearing along Japan's shores was increasing.
   Moderate voices made themselves heard within the government. A new
   edict was softer:

     It is not thought fitting to drive away all foreign ships
     irrespective of their condition, in spite of their lack of
     supplies, or of their having stranded or their suffering from
     stress of weather. You should, when necessary, supply them with
     food and fuel and advise them to return, but on no account allow
     foreigners to land. If, however, after receiving supplies and
     instructions they do not withdraw, you will, of course drive them
     away.

   MacDonald knew the risks, and approached Japan obliquely in order to
   minimise them. Even so, he spent the next ten months in captivity.

   Ocean streams

   MacDonald's curiosity about Japan had first been aroused as a child,
   with the arrival in 1834 of three Japanese castaways. More than a year
   earlier a full Japanese crew had set off in the Hojun-maru from the
   port of Toba with a cargo of rice and ceramics intended as annual
   tribute for the shogun up the coast in Edo (modern-day Tokyo). Very
   quickly they were blown offshore by a sudden autumn storm. Fourteen
   months later the crippled junk and its survivors were washed ashore on
   Cape Flattery, in current-day Washington state, along with the bales
   of rice and boxes of fine porcelain. A delighted band of Makah Indians
   seized what they could of the cargo and enslaved the survivors. The
   Hudson's Bay Company, who traded with the Makah, found the sailors and
   bought them.

   Seafarers from the isles of Japan have been drifting eastwards in
   crippled vessels for hundreds of years, and perhaps millennia.
   Presumably, they mingled blood if they survived along the
   way--MacDonald himself felt he might be a recipient.

   Their conveyor belt was the Kuroshio (Black) Current, named after the
   deep colour of its waters. The Kuroshio is the north Pacific's Gulf
   Stream, for it brings warm water from the tropics up east of Taiwan,
   north-eastwards along the Japanese coast and on towards the polar
   regions, sweeping east below the Aleutian isles and down the American
   coast (see map). To this day Japanese fishing floats and even monks'
   wooden sandals are washed up on the shores of the Pacific Northwest.
   Katherine Plummer in "The Shogun's Reluctant Ambassadors: Japanese Sea
   Drifters in the North Pacific" (Oregon Historical Society, 1991)
   relates the case of the ghost ship Ryoei-maru, a motorised but
   stricken coastal fishing boat found off Vancouver Island in 1927 with
   the parched corpses of the crew on board and a poignant diary of their
   last days.

   So tyrannically did the Tokugawa shogunate wish to deny its subjects
   outside knowledge that it was not just foreign sailors on the coast
   who risked punishment. Japanese sailors were not allowed to leave the
   country. They knew that if ever they were shipwrecked on foreign
   shores, then they were barred from returning to Japan. Some survivors
   came back regardless: sometimes a Russian ship would put them down
   among the Kurile Islands in a baidarka, a local canoe, loaded with
   provisions; the sailor would then make his way alone to Ezo. Others
   came back to Nagasaki via China on Chinese junks, with the help of
   Western missionaries, but if execution did not always follow, a stiff
   and lengthy interrogation certainly did.

   Tokugawa xenophobia increased the risks of wreck or drift. To prevent
   sailors going abroad, shipbuilding rules restricted the seaworthiness
   of Japanese vessels. The coastal traders that brought grain and other
   tribute to Edo were in essence overloaded arks. They lacked stability.
   The wind caught their high sterns, hampering manoeuvrability.
   Meanwhile, they lacked the sturdy centre-mounted rudders of Chinese
   junks or Western craft, and Japanese rudders mounted to one side
   snapped readily in heavy seas, just when the craft most needed
   steerage.

   To reduce the risk of foundering in a storm, the crew of a rudderless
   craft would cut down the mast, turning their vessel into a hulk, at
   the mercy of wind and waves. The crews of such stricken ships tended
   to turn spiritual. In 1813, according to a later account by the
   captain, Jukichi, the crew of Tokujo-maru, blown off-course for Edo
   with a cargo of rice, cut their top-knots as an act of purification,
   and one crew member shaved his head to become a monk. They prayed to
   Buddhist and Shinto gods (every vessel carried a shrine), and they
   prepared divination papers to find out where they were. After a year
   and a half of drifting, during which most of the crew died, three
   survivors were picked up by a British ship off the coast of
   California.

   Jukichi, reckoned to be the first recorded Japanese to land in
   America, returned home four years later, via Alaska and Kamchatka, and
   spent the first night in the village temple, as he had promised the
   gods. He spent the rest of his life begging funds for the memorial
   stone he had promised his crew.

   The shogunate's hungry demand for tribute, which forced many vessels
   to set sail after the autumn rice harvest, no doubt increased the
   number of sea-drifters: that there was a word for them, hyoryumin,
   attests to their number. The plentiful supply of krill at the point
   where the warm waters of the Kuroshio meet Arctic waters, which
   attracted whales, no doubt increased the number of hyoryumin picked up
   by Western ships. A whaler from Brighton, Massachusetts, is reckoned
   to have been the first in Japanese waters, in 1820, when it came upon
   a pod of sperm whales. A year later 30 American ships cruised around
   Japan, and by 1839 the number of Western whalers had grown to 550,
   four-fifths of them American. It was off Japan, of course, that
   Captain Ahab lost his leg ("dismasted") to the great white whale that
   was his nemesis, and in Herman Melville's imagination the mystery and
   danger of Moby Dick is fused with the land around which he swims.

   As the north Pacific became more crowded, some of the Japanese
   sea-drifters were bound to help unlock the double-bolted land even
   before Commodore Matthew Perry steamed into Edo Bay in 1853 demanding
   recognition for the United States. One such was Otokichi, the youngest
   of the three found enslaved near Cape Flattery. The Hudson's Bay
   Company factor had sent the crew to London, with a notion that they
   might be used as a means to open up trade with Japan. They were then
   shipped to Macau, where they helped Karl Gutzlaff, an indefatigable
   missionary with a Hong Kong street still named after him, to translate
   St John's gospel into Japanese. They hoped to return to Japan in an
   American trader, but the vessel met with cannon fire in Edo Bay and
   Kagoshima. Rebuffed, they resumed their life in Macau.

   Otokichi went on to Shanghai to work for a British trading company,
   married an Englishwoman--perhaps the first Japanese to do so--and
   prospered; after her death he married an Indian. As a British subject,
   John Matthew Ottoson was to return twice to Japan, the second time
   with the Royal Navy in 1854, to act as translator during the
   negotiations that opened Japan up to British trade. He is buried in
   the Japanese Cemetery in Singapore.

   Manjiro, who made it back

   The most famous sea-drifter is known in the West and even Japan as
   John Manjiro. Two days after Melville set off in early 1841 from
   Fairhaven, Massachusetts, on the whaling adventure that provided the
   material for "Moby Dick", Manjiro, the youngest of five crew, set out
   fishing near his village of Nakanohama on the rugged south-western
   coast of Shikoku, one of Japan's four main islands. On the fourth day,
   the skipper saw black clouds looming and ordered the boat to be rowed
   to shore. It was too late. Over two weeks they drifted east almost 400
   miles, landing on Torishima, a barren volcanic speck whose only
   sustenance was brackish water lying in puddles and nesting seabirds.
   In late summer even the albatrosses left. After five months, while out
   scavenging, Manjiro saw a ship sailing towards the island.

   The castaways' saviour, William Whitfield, captain of the John
   Howland, a Fairhaven whaler, took a shine to the sparky lad. In
   Honolulu he asked Manjiro if he wanted to carry on to Fairhaven. The
   boy did, studied at Bartlett's Academy, which taught maths and
   navigation to its boys, went to church and fell for local girls. He
   later signed on for a three-year whaling voyage to the Pacific, and
   when he returned, joined a lumber ship bound round Cape Horn for San
   Francisco and the California gold rush. He made a handsome sum and
   found passage back to Honolulu.

   By early 1851--the year of "Moby Dick" and two years before Commodore
   Perry turned up--Manjiro was at last back in Japan, and things were
   already changing. He and two of the original crew had been dropped in
   their open sailing boat by an American whaling ship off the Ryukyu
   Islands. They were taken to Kagoshima, seat of the Satsuma clan. The
   local daimyo, Shimazu Nariakira, grilled Manjiro, but the tone was
   inquisitive more than inquisitorial: please to explain the steamship,
   trains, photography, etc. In Nagasaki, Manjiro had to trample on an
   image of the Virgin and child. He was asked whether the katsura bush
   could be seen from America growing on the moon. He described America's
   system of government, the modest living of the president and how New
   Englanders were so industrious that they used their time on the
   lavatory to read. Amazingly, he dared criticise Japan's ill-treatment
   of foreign ships in need of wood and water, and made a heartfelt plea
   for the opening of Japan, going so far as to put the American case for
   a coal-bunkering station in Japan to allow steamships to cross the
   Pacific from California to China.

                                              Leeds Museums and Galleries

                        Leeds Museums and Galleries

   Rather than being kept in prison, he was freed to visit his mother--in
   Nakanohana she showed him his memorial stone--and was even made a
   samurai. In Tosa (modern-day Kochi), he taught English to men who were
   later influential during the overthrow of the shogunate and the
   establishment of constitutional government in the Meiji period, from
   1860. During negotiations in 1854 with Perry, Manjiro acted as an
   interpreter. Later, in 1860, he joined the first Japanese embassy to
   America. But as Christopher Benfey explains in "The Great Wave: Gilded
   Age Misfits, Japanese Eccentrics and the Opening of Old Japan" (Random
   House, 2003), if the terror of being lost at sea was the defining
   experience of Manjiro's life, then his greatest gift to the Japanese
   was his translation of Nathaniel Bowditch's "The New American
   Practical Navigator", known to generations of mariners as the
   "seaman's bible".

   As for Ranald MacDonald, though he was handed over by the Ainu and
   taken by junk to Nagasaki for interrogation, he was treated decently.
   With a respectable education and a gentle presence, he was clearly a
   cut above the usual rough-necked castaway, and he was put to teaching
   English. Some of the students who came to his cell later flourished as
   interpreters and compilers of dictionaries. The most notable, Einosuke
   Moriyama, served as the chief translator in Japan's negotiations with
   Perry, as well as interpreter to America's first consul to Japan,
   Townsend Harris.

   In the spring of 1849 the American warship Preble arrived in Nagasaki,
   its commander, James Glynn, ignoring the imprecations from assorted
   Japanese craft to "go away, go away". The American government had
   heard that the Lagoda, an American whaler, had been wrecked on the
   Japanese coast and a number of crew taken prisoner. (Historians now
   think the crew, whose numbers had diminished in prison through
   sickness and a suicide, were deserters.) The Preble was dispatched
   from Hong Kong to rescue them, the government thinking no doubt this
   was also a useful exercise in testing Japan's exclusionary resolve. To
   Glynn's surprise, he learnt that MacDonald, who had been presumed
   dead, was also in Nagasaki. The Preble carried the exultant adventurer
   to Macau, where he promptly signed on a ship that took him to
   Australia's goldfields.

   A secret no more

   Very soon after, Japan opened to the world. Its adoption of
   industrialisation and Western constitutional government was perhaps
   the most abrupt transformation of a country in history. That is well
   recorded. Less noticed was the change to sailors around Japan's
   coasts. Yet St John, the British explorer, relates a foreign shipwreck
   on Hokkaido just two decades after MacDonald left Nagasaki. The
   captain of the Eliza Corry was found by locals close to death on the
   shore. In short order, they made European clothes for him, even
   finding him a wide-awake hat. A table, fork and small and large spoon
   were fashioned for him, while a junk, dispatched in a hurry, returned
   with three Californian apples and three sheets of foreign notepaper to
   complete his contentment.

   As for whaling around Japan, vestigial echoes reverberate. Every
   northern winter, Japan faces barbs for sending a whaling fleet into
   Antarctic waters. And why, asks the mayor of Taiji, a small whaling
   port, should Japanese ships have to go so far, suffering international
   outrage? Because, he says, answering his own question, the Americans
   fished out all the Japanese whales in the century before last.


   Neither very peaceful, nor in process

   A MONTH after the abduction of a journalist, Birendra Sah, in the
   district of Bara in southern Nepal, three Maoist parliamentarians this
   week announced the findings of their own inquiry into the affair. They
   concluded that two local Maoist officials had shot Mr Sah dead, on the
   orders of their local superior but outside party policy. This followed
   weeks of obfuscation from the Maoist leadership and the government and
   came after Mr Sah's weeping wife appeared in public in Kathmandu.

   Although last year's peace agreement officially ended the Maoist
   insurrection, abductions, threats and violence have continued. The
   Terai, the southern plain, is now the most violent part of Nepal.
   Perpetrators include the Maoists, a string of new militant and
   criminal groups, and the army and police. There are now more than 20
   Terai factions, mostly claiming to espouse the rights of the
   marginalised southern peoples known as Madhesis. The daily litany of
   violence recalls the war years. In recent days a youth was burnt to
   death, a local politician had his throat slit and a bomb in the town
   of Birgunj killed one person.

   The backdrop to this violence is renewed political stalemate. In
   October elections to a constituent assembly, planned for this month,
   were postponed indefinitely. The Maoists had earlier walked out of the
   interim cabinet. They had a long series of new demands, notably a
   system of proportional representation for the elections, and the
   immediate abolition of the monarchy.

   The political limbo feeds the violence. It is rooted in the
   minorities' sense of continued discrimination; the politicians'
   obsession with short-term political gain; and the Maoists' failure so
   far to accept peaceful, competitive politics. As the Maoists struggle
   to overcome internal divisions between hardliners and pragmatists,
   their Young Communist League has revived their old system of parallel
   government and rough justice.

   Many other questions remain unresolved. The United Nations mission in
   Nepal, UNMIN, is concerned about the prolonged confinement of former
   Maoist fighters in 28 camps. This week UNMIN's head, Ian Martin,
   offered to discuss a long-term solution for them and the Nepal Army,
   which under the peace accord is meant to become more inclusive. The
   army's hardliners, however, resent any hint of UN involvement.


   Having successfully ousted a king, Nepal is still looking for peace 

   JUST four months after huge demonstrations forced King Gyanendra to
   relinquish absolute power, protest has become a way of life in Nepal.
   Its latest success came on August 20th, when, after violent
   demonstrations in Kathmandu and elsewhere, the government rescinded
   its attempt to raise the prices of kerosene, diesel and petrol.
   Unfortunately, the goal that motivated many to join the original
   revolt earlier this year is proving harder to reach: a lasting peace
   in the ten-year civil war with Maoist insurgents.

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

                     Prachanda the potential Octobrist

   Still, it seems tantalisingly close. The Maoists are observing a
   ceasefire, and in June agreed to join an interim government with the
   seven-party alliance of democratic parties that backs Girija Prasad
   Koirala, the prime minister. There would then be elections--as early
   as next April--to an assembly to draft a new constitution. This month
   the Maoists accepted that their fighters would be confined to
   cantonments, where the United Nations would monitor them. The
   government's army would be confined to its barracks. A beefed-up
   United Nations presence, to be led by Ian Martin, a veteran of the
   transition in East Timor, and now head of a much-praised UN
   human-rights operation in Nepal, is to be announced shortly.

   Every element of this seemingly neat arrangement, however, is
   uncertain. The parties, for example, are loth to let the Maoists join
   the government until they have disarmed. But so far they have not even
   agreed to be separated from their weapons in the cantonments. "Unless
   and until this reactionary, cruel, ruthless royal army is disbanded,"
   says Dev Gurung, a senior Maoist negotiator, "the people will still
   need their weapons."

   Some of the democratic politicians, such as Prakash Saran Mahat, a
   former foreign minister, agree that the army remains a threat, albeit
   a subdued one. However, he says, "it could stage a coup, but not
   create problems at the grass roots." The Maoists could do the latter.
   Their leader, Pushpa Kamal Dahal, better known as Prachanda, has said
   he has 30,000-35,000 soldiers, who would be confined, and a further
   100,000 militia members, who would not. Since these are responsible
   for much intimidation and extortion in the countryside, they might
   make it hard to hold free and fair elections.

   Next, there are fundamental disagreements over the formation of an
   interim government and a body to replace the parliament. The Maoists
   want the interim constitution to declare Nepal a republic, rather than
   let the constituent assembly decide that. But among the parties, there
   is still some support for a ceremonial role for the monarchy. One of
   the big mainstream parties, known as the UML (for Unified
   Marxist-Leninist), has suggested that a referendum on the role of the
   king be held simultaneously with the assembly elections. Its leader,
   Madhav Kumar Nepal, claims that Prachanda, who insists the monarchy is
   already "suspended", agrees with this.

   Also troubling is the Maoist insistence that the interim constitution
   reflect "ethnic federalism"--ie, a division into autonomous regions.
   Mr Gurung says the model would be a "multinational country, like
   Switzerland". But Nepal's complex mix of ethnic groups defies
   geographical division. Resentments kept in check by the monarchy and
   then civil war are already re-emerging.

   While optimists hope Nepal will become a Himalayan Switzerland, a
   gloomier assessment, from the American ambassador, James Moriarty,
   compared the country to Russia between February and October 1917. The
   Maoists, critics say, have not stopped recruiting fighters. According
   to Subodh Pyakurel, who runs INSEC, a human-rights group, they have
   abducted more than 300 people since April, and extortion is rampant.
   Prachanda himself has threatened an "October Revolution" if talks with
   the parties fail. The best hope, in the judgment of many dealing with
   him, is that, given a choice, he would prefer to keep talking than
   resume fighting.


   The chief minister wins again


   THE teetotal state of Gujarat, in the west of India, has once again
   revealed a taste for a strong political brew. On December 23rd a vote
   count showed that the state's chief minister, Narendra Modi, romped
   home to another big victory in elections to the state assembly held
   earlier that month. Mr Modi, a member of the Hindu-nationalist
   Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), was already the most controversial
   figure in Indian politics. He may now become one of the most
   influential.

   Once the size of Mr Modi's win was confirmed--the BJP carried 117 out
   of 182 seats--it became hard to remember why anyone thought he might
   lose. But the Congress party had raised its hopes, if not its game, in
   this campaign. Sonia Gandhi, the party's leader, crossed swords with
   him. The leaders of two powerful Gujarati castes, the Patels and the
   Kolis, had fallen out with him (at least until he won). And some of
   the party's foot-soldiers also resented a leader who owes more to a
   personality cult than to them. As Mr Modi's supporters donned smiling
   "Modi" masks, some of the rank-and-file grumbled that no one was
   bigger than the party.

   Mr Modi had won the previous election, in 2002, in special
   circumstances, just ten months after 58 rail passengers, many of them
   Hindu activists, died in a blaze blamed on a Muslim mob. The
   anti-Muslim sentiment unleashed by that incident--up to 2,000 people
   were killed in the pogrom that followed--helped sweep Mr Modi to
   victory.

   Since then, the state's Muslims have "learned to live with downcast
   eyes", as a report by one local lobby group puts it. But the rest of
   the state has its head up and its chest out. Always prosperous and
   enterprising, Gujarat is now booming. Its voters clearly credit some
   of this prosperity to Mr Modi's administration, which is notably less
   venal and ineffectual than those Indians in most other states have to
   endure.

   India's nightmare is that the millions left behind by its new
   prosperity might lash out, turning to Maoist violence. But equally
   sinister is the prospect of its aspirant classes casting their lot
   with a business-friendly strongman who promises to make the proverbial
   trains run on time and to keep disaffected minorities in check.

   The BJP is short of "tall" leaders. L.K. Advani, its candidate for
   prime minister, is 80. The party's president, Rajnath Singh, has made
   little impression: no one is wearing masks made in his likeness. Mr
   Modi, on the other hand, has attracted intelligent and ambitious
   strategists, such as Arun Jaitley, who would not waste their talents
   on him if they thought him no more than a provincial demagogue.

   But his campaign, so successful within the state, may have done some
   damage to his larger ambitions. His frequent appeals to Gujarati
   chauvinism jar outside the state, and he struggled to maintain decorum
   when provoked. After Mrs Gandhi's reference to "merchants of death"
   was taken as an allusion to his alleged connivance in the 2002 pogrom,
   his defiant response appeared to justify a notorious 2005 murder by
   policemen in his state. The exchange earned both leaders a reprimand
   from India's Election Commission. This populism may win votes. But the
   BJP must also remain acceptable to a coalition of parties if it is
   once again to head a national government. Mr Advani has had to soften
   his image to lead his party. If Mr Modi is ever to succeed him, he too
   will need to try on a different mask.


                                                                    Panos

                                   Panos

   The slum-dwellers of Dharavi are green

   LIKE Hindu souls, disposable plastic cups are many times reborn in
   Dharavi. In a spiralling continuum, they are discarded and gathered
   in, melted down to their polypropylene essence, and re-moulded in some
   new plastic form. Recycling is one of the slum's biggest industries.
   Thousands of tonnes of scrap plastic, metals, paper, cotton, soap and
   glass revolve through Dharavi each day.

   Location is the key to this. Until two decades ago, the slum was next
   door to Bombay's biggest rubbish tip. This provided a livelihood for
   thousands of local dalits, for whom "ragpicking"--scavenging on
   society's leftovers for anything of salvageable value--is a
   traditional employment. The tip has since been shifted outside the
   city. So too, for want of space, have many of Dharavi's recycling
   units. Yet the roughly 6,000 tonnes of rubbish produced each day by a
   swelling Mumbai continues to sustain an estimated 30,000 ragpickers,
   including many residents of Dharavi. The slum is also host to some 400
   recycling units.

   To a devout low-caste Hindu, the recycling process might offer solace,
   for through its gyrations rejected goods come back in new and valuable
   forms. At the first turn of the wheel is Ravi, a scavenger waiting
   outside a garbage wholesaler to unload his day's labour--a sack of
   paper and plastic plucked from Dharavi's rancid alleys. Ravi is
   balding, has rotten teeth and reckons he is 35.

   He says he arrived in Mumbai from Nagpur, Maharashtra, about 25 years
   ago, after fleeing a cruel stepmother. The journey took him a bit over
   three years, most of which he spent in prison; he was arrested aboard
   a train leaving Nagpur for travelling without a ticket. Since he got
   to Mumbai, he has spent every night on a nearby railway platform, and
   his days scavenging. Earning around 20 rupees (50 cents) per kilo of
   plastic litter, Ravi makes between 50 and 100 rupees a day--of which
   he aims to send 1,200 rupees a month to his younger sister in Nagpur.
   He has not been home, or seen her, since running away as a child. He
   explains this act of almost incredible selflessness thus: "I have no
   attachment to anyone except my sister."

   The wholesaler will rebag Ravi's plastic and sell it to a sorter for
   25 rupees a kilo. The recycling wheel turns again in a gloomy hutment
   in Jalil Compound in western Dharavi. In a blur of grubby hands, a row
   of five squatting youths rake a pile of plastic litter--bottle tops,
   machine parts and broken toys--between them, sorting it according to
   quality and colour. First in line is Mumtaz Ahmed, whose
   responsibility it is to pick out high-grade, thickly moulded plastic.
   A semi-schooled 18-year-old, who arrived from Uttar Pradesh six months
   ago, Mr Ahmed earns 100 rupees a day.

   The sorted plastic is ground into flakes, and sold to a
   granule-maker--such as Nausheed Khan, a tall and dapper Dharavi-born
   businessman. In his factory, the plastic flakes are washed, melted,
   squeezed into hard brown wires, then chopped into pellets. A local
   bucket-making factory buys this stuff for 35 rupees a kilo. Mr Khan,
   the head of a local chamber of commerce, expects to earn around
   100,000 rupees a month. He reckons it takes 150 scavenged plastic cups
   to make 100 cups of recycled plastic. Not every cup, alas, can be
   saved.


   Fukuda braces for his biggest battle, over the annual budget

   [3]Japan's politics

   THE Diet, Japan's parliament, this week saw the end of one session, an
   extraordinary one in every sense, and the start of another that will
   be ordinary only in name. With the lower house held by his Liberal
   Democratic Party (LDP) and its allies, and the upper house in the
   hands of the opposition, Yasuo Fukuda, the prime minister, has an
   excruciating task in securing the passage of the annual budget.

   The extraordinary session was a consequence of the Democratic Party of
   Japan's victory in the upper-house elections last July. The DPJ's
   blunt leader, Ichiro Ozawa, vowed to oppose any extension of the
   navy's mission in the Indian Ocean, where it refuels allies' ships as
   part of NATO's war in Afghanistan. The government sees the mission as
   proof of Japan's global commitment; Mr Ozawa says it breaches the
   country's pacifist constitution.

   Mr Ozawa warned Mr Fukuda, who took over as a "caretaker" prime
   minister in September, that the unprecedented use of the LDP's
   supermajority in the lower house to override upper-house opposition to
   the refuelling mission would provoke a formal censure from the upper
   house. And that would surely bring a general election.

   Yet on January 11th, when the LDP used its supermajority to reinstate
   the mission, no censure followed. As for toppling the government, late
   last year Mr Ozawa held secret talks with Mr Fukuda on forming a
   "grand coalition", an action disowned by his party. If there is any
   logic to Mr Ozawa's climbdown, it is that the public is indifferent to
   the refuelling debate. Wages are stagnant and the future of social
   welfare uncertain: pocketbook matters count. A member of the shadow
   cabinet says the DPJ is holding its fire for the budget fight. With
   the economy and stockmarket stumbling, that offers the best chance of
   bringing down the government.

   A drama is certain. The annual budget needs simply to pass the lower
   house. But all sorts of supplementary bills need upper-house approval.
   If they do not get it, the ruling coalition could--at some political
   cost--use its supermajority again. However, procedural rules mean
   there is not enough time for that before the new fiscal year begins on
   April 1st. So government programmes might come to a halt, while tax
   uncertainties would harm investment.

   A big battle will be over the renewal of a petrol-tax surcharge, whose
   proceeds are earmarked for roads and such. If the opposition wills it,
   petrol will fall by 24 ($0.22) a litre on April 1st, and Mr Fukuda
   may be loth to anger consumers by forcing a price rise a few weeks
   later. But who cares about consumers? Most prefectural governments,
   including DPJ ones, want the surcharge, to lavish as pork on local
   building firms. Besides, stalling the budget for political ends could
   backfire on the opposition. And Mr Fukuda may not use his
   supermajority powers. Budget matters are not black-or-white, and Mr
   Fukuda is grey by nature. Compromises are possible.

   It is a conundrum for the opposition. Unusually, the opinion polls
   suggest the DPJ is more popular than the ruling coalition and, for all
   its internal divisions, it has little to lose from a general election.
   Yet the election is Mr Fukuda's to call, and he says he will not even
   think of one until he has hosted the G8 summit, in July.

   Most politicians now expect an election not in April but late in the
   summer. That assumes that Mr Fukuda will weather not just the budget
   fight, but also an almighty mess of lost records at the pensions
   agency and a defence-procurement scandal that looks about to claim a
   former defence minister, Fumio Kyuma.

   By the summer, though, Mr Fukuda, the "caretaker", may want to hang on
   longer. He is not bound to call an election until September 2009.
   Stability, of sorts, then. The price? Continued political chaos and
   none of the bold measures badly needed to set the economy on a firmer
   footing. In the meantime, as Tadamori Oshima, the LDP's Diet-affairs
   chairman, moans, "The world believes Japan's politicians are unable to
   decide on anything, not even to put one foot in front of the other."


   The party throws a sop to the workers


   LABOUR conditions in China can be notoriously lousy. Reports abound of
   sweatshops, workers' protests and this year even of officials
   condoning the luring of children into slavery. A new law on employment
   contracts, coming into effect on January 1st, will in theory improve
   workers' lots, but is creating more headaches.

   The law is supposed to provide greater job security. Workers with ten
   years or more of service will have open-ended contracts and companies
   will have to inform unions before sacking anyone. Employers fear the
   law will mean bigger severance payments. The unions will also have the
   power to negotiate collective contracts.

   But the law has many detractors. Some allege it will take China back
   to the "iron rice bowl" era of Maoist days when jobs were for life and
   the economy was crippled by a lack of incentive. Others, conversely,
   argue that it will strengthen state-controlled unions but do little
   for downtrodden workers.

   Both sides agree it has loopholes, which companies have been racing to
   exploit. The Chinese press has cited numerous attempts by enterprises
   to circumvent the law. Huawei, China's best-known maker of
   telecommunications equipment, has attracted special notice. It has
   been accused of asking some 7,000 employees with more than eight years
   of service to resign to compete for new short-term posts. The aim,
   allegedly, was to reclassify them as new employees.

   The new law has been a boon to the All-China Federation of Trade
   Unions (ACFTU), an umbrella for all China's unions that is in effect
   an arm of government. In recent years it has seen its power eroded as
   state-owned industries have collapsed and the private sector has
   flourished, eschewing niceties such as unions and Communist Party
   cells.

   After persuading Huawei, which denied trying to evade the law, to
   revise its plans, the ACFTU this week issued a stern warning to other
   companies not to try anything similar. It said a "small number" were
   laying off large numbers of workers in advance of the new law. This,
   it said, was threatening the success of efforts to build a "socialist
   harmonious society" and should be "resolutely stopped".

   But for all the ACFTU's propaganda, few expect it to emerge as a
   strident new champion of workers' rights. Independent trade unions
   will remain in effect illegal. China has no plans to reintroduce the
   right to strike, which it abolished in 1982 as it began to fret about
   the example set by the Solidarity trade-union movement in Poland. The
   role of the ACFTU, in the government's eyes, is to prevent worker
   unrest.

   One of the main aims of the new law is to counter the widespread
   complaints in China that the country has been over-zealous in its
   embrace of capitalism. These complaints became particularly shrill in
   June, after reports emerged that local officials in the northern
   province of Shanxi had allowed rural brick kilns to lure hundreds of
   people, including children, to work in slave-like conditions. The new
   law had been publicly debated long before the scandal surfaced. But
   its critics say the government rushed to push it through the
   rubber-stamp legislature in June in order to assuage public anger over
   the kilns.

   One of the law's most outspoken critics is Dong Baohua of the East
   China University of Political Science and Law, who helped draft
   China's first labour law in 1994. Among Mr Dong's complaints is that
   the new law does nothing to improve the lot of tens of millions of
   migrant workers from the countryside. They make up most of the
   unskilled labour in urban areas and are the most frequent victims of
   poor labour conditions. China's official trade unions have yet to
   build a network among such workers. Nor will the law help people such
   as Shanxi's slaves, who suffer not from a lack of legal protection but
   from poor enforcement. Mr Dong also says the new law will not cut the
   number of labour disputes, which have become increasingly common in
   recent years (see chart).

   For all the ACFTU's fulminations, critics say many companies will
   continue efforts to evade the law or else simply ignore it. But in an
   interview published by one of China's biggest-circulation newspapers,
   Southern Weekend, Mr Dong argued that China could also end up like
   France, with its economy numbed by costly employment benefits and
   strikes triggered by any effort to reform them. That, he said, would
   be the "most terrifying" outcome for China. The party would agree.


                                                                  Eyevine

                                  Eyevine

   All the misery of Maoism with none of the redeeming features


   THE place often seems like a black box from which the occasional
   horror (like a nuclear bomb) emerges without warning or welcome. North
   Korea certainly deserves its nickname, the hermit kingdom. Visitors
   are tightly controlled and only a trickle of Westerners admitted. Yet
   even North Korea needs dollars, and tries to get them by attracting
   Chinese tourists, who go for the gambling, and the bizarre allure of a
   bygone era of fanaticism and privation that China itself once endured.
   Joining a group of 60 visitors, this is what you find.

   The North Koreans can put on a good show. In April and May, no fewer
   than 100,000 performers went through a series of synchronised
   gymnastic displays at the May 1st Stadium in Pyongyang, the capital.
   Even a few hundred Western tourists got a peek (many from the
   arch-enemy, America, whose tourists are normally kept at bay). To
   Chinese visitors, the show, known as Arirang, was reminiscent of
   similar extravaganzas in Beijing during the days of Mao Zedong.
   "Nowadays I doubt whether we could do it," says one, wistfully. Next
   year's Olympic Games in Beijing, he suggests, might prove an
   exception.

   In the late 1990s, the North Koreans allowed investors from Hong Kong
   and Macau to set up casinos in their closed world. One was in
   Rajin-Sonbong, a failed investment zone close to the Chinese border;
   another lurked in the basement of an isolated hotel for foreigners in
   Pyongyang. North Korea correctly reckoned that, since gambling is
   banned in China, these would be a big attraction (gambling is also
   banned in North Korea for ordinary citizens, but the government
   allowed Chinese to staff the casinos).

   As China saw it, the casinos proved rather too popular, drawing huge
   numbers of corrupt officials. Two years ago, China cracked down on
   cross-border gambling--appealing to neighbouring countries to close
   down casinos, banning travel agents from offering gambling tours,
   restricting foreign visits by officials--after one official allegedly
   embezzled hundreds of thousands of dollars of government funds and
   gambled the money away at the casino in Rajin-Sonbong. This has now
   been closed. The one in Pyongyang is still open, but is beyond the
   range of weekend holiday-makers. These days you find few gamblers
   there, mostly Chinese tourists betting a few tens of dollars to help
   relieve the tedium of endless mind-numbing tours of political
   monuments.

   Neither China nor North Korea publishes regular figures for tourism in
   each other's country but the crackdown seems to have taken its toll.
   One Chinese newspaper said there had been 20,000 job losses in
   Dandong, a border town through which Chinese tourists usually pass on
   their way to North Korea by train. The number of Chinese visitors to
   Dandong has fallen to a quarter of what it was in the peak years. Last
   August many travel agencies said North Korea had stopped accepting
   Chinese visitors. It is not clear why. Some cited floods. One official
   newspaper said it was because North Korea had reduced its annual quota
   for Chinese tourists. It is likely that it was also piqued by China's
   unusually tart response to its supposed ally's missile and nuclear
   tests. Early this year, restrictions appeared to ease again.

   What remains is a niche market for the curious and sated. For all
   their professed ideological similarities, North Korea and China are
   worlds apart. Affluent urban Chinese who have travelled to other parts
   of Asia now visit North Korea for its rarity value, and for a taste of
   what they themselves have escaped from. One member of your
   correspondent's group was the son of a Korean war veteran. He and
   other Chinese visitors were disappointed to find little public
   acknowledgement of China's role in the Korean war of 1950-53, when
   hundreds of thousands of Chinese died fighting the Americans.

   Older Chinese visitors find striking comparisons with their own
   country, 30 or more years ago. The public worship of North Korea's
   leader, Kim Jong Il, and of his late father, Kim Il Sung, is similar
   to the cult of Mao. The state ideology of juche (self-reliance) has
   much in common with Mao's isolationism. Chinese tourists are given
   warning, before leaving, to avoid commenting on North Korean politics
   and to be careful where they point their cameras. China was once as
   prickly.

   North Korea is almost as wary of Chinese visitors as it is of
   Westerners. Like Westerners, Chinese are assigned guides whose job is
   to prevent spontaneous contact with locals. Some guides express
   disdain for Chinese socialism. "China is so dirty now and so
   expensive, and takes no stance whatsoever against the American
   imperialists", says one (with its industry barely operating, North
   Korea's air does seem refreshingly unpolluted to Chinese visitors).

   The kind of tourism North Korea prefers is the carefully controlled
   tours by South Koreans to Mount Kumgang, a scenic resort on the
   northern side of their common border. There, they have virtually no
   contact with locals (South Korean tourists are rarely welcome in
   Pyongyang). On May 17th, North and South Korea opened the first rail
   links across the border since the Korean war. It was largely a
   symbolic act. Maybe one day such links will make it easier to travel
   to Mount Kumgang and to Kaesong, a South Korean investment zone in the
   north. But there is no sign North Korea plans to let South Koreans
   travel freely. Regular train services are still a distant prospect.

   As mobile-phone-loving Chinese tourists frequently complain, North
   Korea does not allow visitors to bring their phones into the
   country--so fearful is it of unmonitored information conduits to the
   outside world. There is no internet access even in expensive hotels.
   North Koreans authorised to speak to visitors appear to be oblivious
   of their guests' annoyance at such privations. They boast that North
   Korea's economy once outperformed China's, particularly in the 1960s
   when China was gripped by famine. One Chinese visitor says her brother
   fled to North Korea then. The North Koreans do not allow her to try to
   contact him.

   A Chinese travel agent says North Korea's poverty is part of its
   off-beat appeal. If North Korea were to become richer, she says, it
   would lose its competitive tourism advantage. Not that it is a huge
   draw, even when it does welcome tourists. The Arirang performance,
   originally due to last for a month, ended several days early because
   of insufficient paying visitors.


   Mixed blessings for China


   POLITICAL developments in Taiwan rarely bring cheer for China. But the
   ruling party's surprising choice for its candidate to fight next
   year's presidential elections will at least provide a little comfort
   to the government in Beijing. It would be happier still if he were to
   lose.

   Frank Hsieh, a former prime minister who wants better relations with
   China, won the nomination after a decisive victory in a ballot on May
   6th among members of the ruling Democratic Progressive Party (DPP). He
   got 45% of the vote, compared with 33% for his main rival, the
   incumbent prime minister, Su Tseng-chang. This was a blow to President
   Chen Shui-bian, who favoured Mr Su and a tougher stance towards China.

   Just as remarkably, given bitter in-fighting within the DPP, Mr Su and
   the two other candidates withdrew gracefully from the race. According
   to party rules, they could have fought a further round. Mr Hsieh's
   nomination will be formally confirmed at the DPP's annual congress on
   June 30th.

   Mr Hsieh has a reputation as a scrapper, having survived numerous
   crises and failures. These include a defeat as a vice-presidential
   candidate in 1996 and controversy about alleged connections with a
   cult led by a man claiming to have supernatural powers who has been
   convicted of fraud. Only five months ago, Mr Hsieh lost a race for the
   mayorship of Taipei. He hopes his political fortunes will mimic those
   of President Chen, who won the presidency in 2000 after losing a bid
   for re-election as mayor of Taipei in 1998. In the presidential
   election next March, Mr Hsieh's chief opponent will be the man who
   defeated Mr Chen in 1998, Ma Ying-jeou, the charismatic nominee of the
   main opposition party, the Kuomintang (KMT).

   Mr Hsieh owes his victory partly to the frustration of DPP members
   with Mr Chen's lacklustre performance. But he faces a tough battle
   against Mr Ma. A poll released this week by the China Times, a pro-KMT
   newspaper, put Mr Ma nine points ahead of Mr Hsieh, although he led by
   20 points before the primary.

   Criminal investigations might yet play a role in the contest. Mr Ma is
   on trial for allegedly embezzling a mayoral special allowance and has
   vowed to remain in the race even if found guilty. There is speculation
   that Mr Hsieh, too, might be indicted on corruption charges in a case
   dating back to his tenure as mayor of the island's second-largest
   city, Kaohsiung, from 1998 to 2005. Should he be charged, the DPP
   would probably put pressure on him to withdraw.

   Like President Chen, Mr Hsieh is a former lawyer who in the past
   defended dissidents under the authoritarian rule of the KMT. Unlike Mr
   Chen, who takes an uncompromising stance towards China, Mr Hsieh has
   called for "coexistence and reconciliation", though he has also called
   for constitutional revisions aimed at making Taiwan a "normal
   country"--a goal that has caused considerable anxiety in both Beijing
   and Washington, DC.

   China would prefer a victory for Mr Ma, who has pushed for better ties
   with China, particularly economic ones. He has not ruled out
   unification, though he says China must become a democracy first. The
   coming months are likely to be turbulent ones in Taiwanese politics,
   something China never likes.


   The Tigers and the government match outrage with outrage

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

                                           Prabhakaran's fearful symmetry


   THE annual speech by Velupillai Prabhakaran, chieftain of the
   Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, to mark "Heroes' Day" on November
   27th is anxiously awaited by Sri Lankans. The elusive separatist
   leader often uses it to reveal his macabre or heroic plans for the
   coming months. This year, however, there were no prizes for guessing
   his intentions. Both the Tigers, fighting for a Tamil homeland
   ("eelam"), and the hawkish government in Colombo had already made
   their positions plain: the 24-year-old war, which has claimed more
   than 70,000 civilian lives, will be stepped up.

   A few hours before Mr Prabhakaran's speech, the air force bombed the
   Tigers' radio station, killing nine civilian staff. So it was
   circulated by telephone and the internet. Combative as ever, Mr
   Prabhakaran declared that it would be "naive" to expect any peaceful
   solution from the Sinhalese-dominated government, and exhorted Tamils
   to fight on.

   It did not take him long to translate words into action. The next day
   he sent a disabled Tamil woman with a bomb strapped to her chest in a
   failed attempt to assassinate an ethnic-Tamil government minister seen
   as a "traitor" to the cause. The same day a bomb killed 20 people in a
   shopping mall in Colombo. The violence seemed a rebuff to foreign
   governments, which had been asking the Tigers to stop political
   assassinations and terrorist attacks, to win world support for a
   decent deal for the Tamils.

   As in the past, the Sri Lankan government soon squandered some of the
   sympathy it was due. It randomly arrested 2,554 Tamils in and around
   Colombo and put 400 of them in Boosa, a detention camp for terrorist
   suspects. Human-rights groups were outraged. On December 4th a
   petition was filed in the Supreme Court. Recalling the court's angry
   response in June when it had summarily ejected 376 Tamils from
   Colombo, the government hurried to free 2,352 people that very day.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e09as761;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world756;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=92705546?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=9178992
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world756;ord=1;num=1?

   The Beijing Olympics raise tricky questions of religious freedom in
   China

   "CHINA is a country with religious freedom and respects every
   religion," boasts the [3]website of Beijing's Olympic games
   organisers. Expecting an influx of God-fearing athletes at next year's
   event, they will even cater to their spiritual needs. But China's
   wariness of foreign clergy is hard to overcome.

   In line with the International Olympic Committee's requirements,
   officials are setting up a religious centre in the Olympic village.
   Athletes will be able to attend services of their own faiths and seek
   counselling from chaplains. But, breaking with usual practice, China
   has not invited foreigners to serve as chaplains. The staff at the
   centre will belong to China's state-approved churches.

   Catholic priests from overseas were bound to be a problem. There have
   been some signs of a thaw in relations with the Vatican. This week
   Chinese clergy in the southern city of Guangzhou ordained the fourth
   bishop loyal to the Vatican to be appointed in China since September.
   But China has no diplomatic ties with the Vatican and several Catholic
   priests are in prison for refusing to co-operate with the
   state-controlled church.

   It also sometimes jails and harasses those Chinese Protestants who
   prefer to worship informally in unregistered "house churches". Foreign
   Protestants initially received positive signals. The state-supervised
   church invited them to help train Chinese clergy. But in March
   Beijing's Olympic organising committee told them that the foreigners
   themselves would not be invited to perform religious duties. No reason
   was given. Teams may still bring their own chaplains with them. But at
   past events many countries have not included chaplains in their own
   delegations, assuming that the host country would invite foreign
   clergy.

   China is uneasy about religious activities at the games. The Olympics
   normally draw many foreign Christian missionaries who, unlike the
   official chaplains, try to spread their faith. Proselytising is banned
   in China. Beijing's Olympic organisers avoid public comment on the
   foreign-chaplain issue, saying only that the religious needs of
   athletes will be met. In 2000 China's state-run news agency, Xinhua,
   reported that a Chinese Buddhist had been invited to serve as a
   chaplain at the Olympics in Sydney. So such needs should be familiar
   to Beijing's games organisers.


   Ethnic violence threatens Nepal's new-found peace


   THE peace process in Nepal passed important landmarks this month as
   former Maoist rebels joined an interim parliament and started putting
   their guns into storage. Yet even as a final settlement to that
   insurgency remains distant, the country is faced with another cause of
   violence: ethnic strife in its southern plains next to India, a region
   known as the Terai.

   The two conflicts are connected. Ten years of Maoist insurgency have
   made many Nepalis more assertive and convinced some of the merits of
   political violence. Also, the peace process will involve a
   constitutional assembly, for which elections are due in June. The
   ethnic group known as Madhesis, who dominate the Terai, fear they will
   be cheated.

   Nepal's censuses have always underestimated Madhesi numbers.
   Ethnically and culturally, they are indistinguishable from the Indians
   across the border. They probably make up more than 40% of the
   population but are barely represented in the bureaucracy, army or
   police and their "Nepaliness" is constantly questioned. Ahead of the
   elections there is a drive to give millions of Madhesis the
   citizenship they lack, allowing them to vote. But Madhesi politicians
   complain that constituencies are gerrymandered so that "one hill vote
   is equal to 20 Terai votes".

   The Terai is volatile. A breakaway faction of ex-Maoists, the Terai
   People's Liberation Front, is waging a violent campaign for
   independence. In December a campaign for Madhesi rights in the town of
   Nepalganj turned into communal violence as hill-people sacked and
   burnt Madhesi businesses in a two-day spree, condoned by the local
   authorities. This week there were demonstrations, daylong curfews and
   five deaths in the central Terai after a Maoist shot dead a Madhesi
   protester.

   Fanning the flames is the monarchy, all-powerful a year ago in what
   was the world's only Hindu kingdom, but now at risk of abolition. By
   sowing communal tension, the palace may hope to postpone the election.
   Consistent accounts place royal agents in the Terai stirring things
   up, as well as in India, appealing to religious fanatics by linking
   the future of Hinduism, Madhesis and the royal family. Hridesh
   Tripathi, a cabinet minister who leads a Terai-based party, says it is
   to be expected that the palace "will use all forms of conspiracy". The
   Madhesis' grievances give the plotters some fertile ground.


   Japanese employees are working themselves to death

   HARA-KIRI is a uniquely Japanese form of suicide. Its corporate
   equivalent is karoshi, "death by overwork". Since this was legally
   recognised as a cause of death in the 1980s, the number of cases
   submitted to the government for the designation has soared; so has the
   number of court cases that result when the government refuses an
   application. In 1988 only about 4% of applications were successful. By
   2005 that share had risen to 40%. If a death is judged karoshi,
   surviving family members may receive compensation of around $20,000 a
   year from the government and sometimes up to $1m from the company in
   damages. For deaths not designated karoshi the family gets next to
   nothing.

   Now a recent court ruling has put companies under pressure to change
   their ways. On November 30th the Nagoya District Court accepted Hiroko
   Uchino's claim that her husband, Kenichi, a third-generation Toyota
   employee, was a victim of karoshi when he died in 2002 at the age of
   30. He collapsed at 4am at work, having put in more than 80 hours of
   overtime each month for six months before his death. "The moment when
   I am happiest is when I can sleep," Mr Uchino told his wife the week
   of his death. He left two children, aged one and three.

   As a manager of quality control, Mr Uchino was constantly training
   workers, attending meetings and writing reports when not on the
   production line. Toyota treated almost all that time as voluntary and
   unpaid. So did the Toyota Labour Standards Inspection Office, part of
   the labour ministry. But the court ruled that the long hours were an
   integral part of his job. On December 14th the government decided not
   to appeal against the verdict.

   The ruling is important because it may increase the pressure on
   companies to treat "free overtime" (work that an employee is obliged
   to perform but not paid for) as paid work. That would send shockwaves
   through corporate Japan, where long, long hours are the norm.

   Official figures say that the Japanese work about 1,780 hours a year,
   slightly less than Americans (1,800 hours a year), though more than
   Germans (1,440). But the statistics are misleading because they do not
   count "free overtime". Other tallies show that one in three men aged
   30 to 40 works over 60 hours a week. Half say they get no overtime.
   Factory workers arrive early and stay late, without pay. Training at
   weekends may be uncompensated.

   During the past 20 years of economic doldrums, many companies have
   replaced full-time workers with part-time ones. Regular staff who
   remain benefit from lifetime employment but feel obliged to work extra
   hours lest their positions be made temporary. Cultural factors
   reinforce these trends. Hard work is respected as the cornerstone of
   Japan's post-war economic miracle. The value of self-sacrifice puts
   the benefit of the group above that of the individual.

   Toyota, which is challenging GM as the world's largest carmaker, is
   often praised for the efficiency and flexibility of its workforce. Ms
   Uchino has a different view. "It is because so many people work free
   overtime that Toyota reaps profits," she says. "I hope some of those
   profits can be brought back to help the employees and their families.
   That would make Toyota a true global leader." The company is promising
   to prevent karoshi in future.


   Down to earth, even at 29,000 feet

   FEW men who find themselves cast as heroes early in life continue to
   command universal esteem till the end. Sir Edmund Hillary was one. To
   be the first to reach the top of the world's highest mountain ensured
   international celebrity and a place in history, but the modesty of a
   slightly gauche New Zealand beekeeper never departed him. Nor was
   mountaineering, or indeed apiculture, his only accomplishment.

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

                             Sherpa and friend

   Two views are often expressed about his life. One is that conquering
   Everest was everything. No one would play down the role of Tenzing
   Norgay, the Sherpa who reached the peak with him, possibly even before
   him; their partnership was like that of Ginger Rogers and Fred
   Astaire. But it was Sir Edmund who first wriggled his way up a crack
   in the 12-metre (40-foot) rockface that had to be overcome after the
   south summit if the real one was to be achieved, and below which only
   oblivion awaited.

   News of the British-led expedition's triumph on May 29th 1953 reached
   the world through a report in the London Times four days later. The
   Times, a sponsor of the expedition, had used an elaborate code to
   outwit any rivals monitoring the radio waves. Its scoop was indeed a
   coup: June 2nd was the day of Queen Elizabeth's coronation.

   Sir Edmund was a man of action. After Everest came more expeditions in
   Nepal, a race to the South Pole and further adventures in the
   Antarctic, the Himalayas and India. But for some onlookers neither
   these nor even the Everest expedition was especially remarkable:
   fitness and physical courage are all very well, they argued, but the
   world's highest peak was simply waiting to be scaled, and a steady
   traffic nowadays makes its way to the top unnoticed, except for the
   litter it leaves.

   Both the dismissive and the awe-struck, however, agree that Sir
   Edmund's other life was wholly admirable, and he himself said he was
   prouder of it than of anything else. This was his tireless work for
   the Sherpas, of whom he had become so fond. Through his efforts, and
   those of Tenzing, hospitals, clinics, bridges, airstrips and nearly 30
   schools have been built in the Solo Khumbu region of Nepal just south
   of Everest. If New Zealand claimed Sir Edmund's loyalty, Nepal, and
   especially its Sherpas, could surely claim his heart.


   Yet another cold-war revival 


   WITHOUT fanfare, China has created a colossal new city. It is called a
   city even though it barely has a population to speak of and consists
   mostly of water and desolate islands. It would be no more than a
   bizarre misnomer were it not that the affected area--a swathe of the
   South China Sea--has other claimants, too.

   In recent years, China has become less strident in asserting its
   claims to sovereignty over islands in the South China Sea. In an
   effort to strengthen ties with wary South-East Asian neighbours, it
   has preferred to play down territorial disputes and stress the need
   for joint efforts to exploit the oilfields beneath the waves.

   But wariness persists. Vietnam has been riled by what it says was a
   recent Chinese decision to upgrade the status of the organisation that
   China says is responsible for the archipelagoes of the Paracels and
   Spratlys as well as the submerged reefs of Macclesfield Bank (see
   map). The outfit in charge of these territories is located on Woody
   Island in the Paracels. Its jurisdiction is reportedly being
   relabelled as the "county-level city" of Sansha (an abbreviation of
   Xisha, Nansha and Zhongsha, China's names for the outcrops), part of
   Hainan province.

   In deference to its neighbours' sensitivities, China has not publicly
   confirmed the action. But Vietnam made its point by tolerating rare
   demonstrations on December 9th outside China's embassy in Hanoi and
   its consulate in Ho Chi Minh City. The Chinese, having used similar
   tactics themselves during spats with other countries--notably
   Japan--would have got the message clearly enough.

   Vietnam had already been piqued by China's staging of big military
   exercises in the South China Sea in November, close to the Paracels.
   China has controlled the islands since it drove out a South Vietnamese
   garrison in 1974. In the 1990s it extended the runway on Woody Island.
   In August China's state-run media said plans had been approved to
   develop group tourism on the archipelago. An official was quoted as
   saying this would be an important way of demonstrating sovereignty.

   But neither China nor Vietnam wants to see their differences
   deteriorate, let alone to the level of 1979 when the countries fought
   a brief border war (occasional skirmishes continued into the 1980s,
   including one in the Spratlys in 1988). During a meeting in November
   in Singapore, China's prime minister, Wen Jiabao, told his Vietnamese
   counterpart that efforts to demarcate their land border should be
   speeded up. The new Sansha city embraces the Spratlys, where the
   Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia and Taiwan also have claims. But these
   contenders have so far kept quiet.

   Tensions between the claimants have eased since China signed an
   agreement with South-East Asian countries in 2002 to resolve their
   disputes in the South China Sea peacefully. In the past couple of
   years China, Vietnam and the Philippines have been conducting an
   unprecedented joint survey of the South China Sea to probe its oil and
   gas reserves. This, however, is the easy part. When they eventually
   determine how big the reserves are, they will have to decide how to
   share them.


   America blunders into Taiwan's electoral politics


   SELDOM do Taiwan's two big political parties find anything to agree
   on. But they are at present united in condemning recent American
   pronouncements on Taiwan. So when George Bush met his Chinese
   counterpart, Hu Jintao, in Sydney on September 6th, the Taiwanese were
   especially concerned at what he might say.

   At issue is a referendum planned to coincide with presidential
   elections in Taiwan in March next year. It would seek support for a
   doomed attempt to join the United Nations as "Taiwan", rather than
   "the Republic of China", under which name it lost its seat to China in
   1971. China--and, it seems, America--regard the referendum as the thin
   end of a wedge. The fat end would be a Taiwanese declaration of
   independence from China.

   At worst, Mr Bush might have repeated a recent statement from a member
   of his National Security Council, Dennis Wilder, that Taiwan could not
   join the UN because "it is not at this point a state in the
   international community". In fact, the issue seems simply to have been
   ignored. But that, too, was depressing for Taiwan, given the
   importance of the referendum. America is a vital ally. But the latest
   debate has brought relations to a low ebb.

   Eager to build his legacy before he steps down in May next year,
   Taiwan's president, Chen Shui-bian, has aggressively, if unavailingly,
   pursued membership for Taiwan in international organisations. He has
   defended this policy as necessary to break out of diplomatic
   isolation. For 14 years Taiwan has vainly been applying for UN
   membership under the name "Republic of China". Mr Chen launched the
   new bid in July and has backed it with a public-relations campaign
   that will culminate in a mass rally on September 15th, three days
   before the annual session of the UN General Assembly.

   The referendum is in part designed to win votes for Mr Chen's
   Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) in presidential and legislative
   elections. The DPP's roots are in the Taiwan independence movement,
   though in office it has toned down its rhetoric. The main opposition
   Nationalist party, the Kuomintang or KMT, favours eventual unification
   with China, which is not popular with voters. To limit any political
   damage from the DPP's referendum, the KMT has proposed one of its own,
   to ask whether Taiwan should use "pragmatic and flexible strategies"
   to rejoin international bodies such as the UN.

   China has never renounced what it says is its right to "reunify"
   Taiwan by force, and in 2005 enshrined this in an "Anti-Secession
   Law". In the past, when angered by Taiwan's manoeuvring, China has
   rattled its sabre, with the unintended consequence of boosting support
   for the DPP. This year, however, China has largely remained calm, but
   for some pointed references to the Anti-Secession Law.

   In fact it was America's opposition to the referendum that brought the
   debate to life in Taiwan. Tired of the political bickering, and
   doubtful about Mr Chen's leadership, the Taiwanese public showed
   little interest until last month. Then John Negroponte, a deputy
   secretary of state, said the referendum was a mistake and that America
   considered it a step towards a declaration of independence.

   Just as China has learned in the past, however, such criticism of
   moves towards de jure independence can backfire. America's reaction
   has convinced the DPP, already sceptical of the depth of American
   support for Taiwan, that it has nothing to lose by pursuing a campaign
   that is bound to harm ties. Even so, the referendum may not give it
   the backing it wants. Under Taiwan's referendum law, the proposal
   needs more than half the 16.8m eligible voters to cast their ballots
   and more than half of those who vote to support it. Even with the
   bonus of American opposition, that may be too high a bar.


   By electing allies of the deposed prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra,
   Thais have voted against the 2006 coup. But the country's worries are
   not over yet 

                                                                      EPA

                                    EPA


   IN STARK contrast to the terrible political violence in Pakistan and
   Kenya, Thailand's election, on December 23rd, was mostly peaceful. It
   also, notwithstanding perennial complaints of vote-buying, seemed
   largely fair. More remarkably, the military chiefs who deposed the
   government of Thaksin Shinawatra in a coup in 2006 seemed to accept
   the public's decision to overrule the coup and restore Mr Thaksin's
   allies to power in the form of the People's Power Party (PPP), a
   reincarnation of his disbanded Thai Rak Thai (TRT).

   Mr Thaksin, too, has struck a conciliatory note. This week he said he
   would return from exile soon and invite the coupmakers to a round of
   golf. "For the sake of the country's reconciliation", he would meet
   his nemesis, General Prem Tinsulanonda, the chief adviser to King
   Bhumibol, and the man widely presumed to be the mastermind behind the
   coup.

   If so, Thailand may emerge from two years of political strife and
   regain its former status as a beacon of multi-party democracy in Asia.
   Until recently such an outcome had seemed improbable. In October a
   memo came to light detailing the junta's plans, through spreading
   black propaganda and fomenting anti-Thaksin protests, to subvert the
   election to thwart a PPP victory. However, embarrassed by the plan's
   discovery, and perhaps disheartened by months of unpopularity, the
   junta seems to have dropped the plan and let the people decide.

   A potential spanner in the works is a decision by the Election
   Commission, due later this month, on which winning candidates will be
   disqualified for electoral malpractice. Early in the campaign the
   commission announced absurdly stringent regulations, raising fears it
   might apply them partially, to disqualify PPP candidates, or indeed
   the entire party, on flimsy grounds. The commission later absolved the
   junta over its plot to subvert the election, arguing that the
   conspiracy had not been enacted and thus no harm was done. If it is
   consistent it will judge poll-fraud allegations by the same yardstick,
   disqualifying elected members only if their rule-breaking may have
   altered the results. Early this week there were signs of splits in the
   commission, with one of its members saying he wanted to quit.

   It had been widely assumed that the PPP would get the most seats but
   not enough to prevent its main rival, the Democrat party, from forming
   a governing coalition. However, the Thaksinites did better than
   expected, winning 233 seats, only eight short of a majority in the
   480-seat lower house (see chart). This was in spite of a recent change
   to the electoral system--to merge single-seat constituencies into ones
   returning up to three members--that seemed designed to encourage Mr
   Thaksin's supporters to spread their votes around other parties. As
   the extent of the PPP's victory became clear on election night, Samak
   Sundaravej, Mr Thaksin's stand-in as party leader, insisted he would
   be prime minister. By the middle of this week it seemed as if the PPP
   had persuaded most or all of the five minor parties that won seats to
   join its coalition. This would give it a big enough majority to
   withstand all but an extravagant number of disqualifications.

   Mr Thaksin took full advantage of his crushing majority in the last
   parliament, pushing his cronies into key institutional jobs while
   scorning his critics. His allies' new government may not have it so
   easy. For one thing, the Democrats emerged stronger from the election,
   gaining 165 seats, up from 96 in the 2005 election (when the lower
   house had 500 seats), so they should provide more effective
   opposition. Furthermore, a new constitution narrowly approved in a
   referendum in August strengthens the checks and balances against an
   over-mighty executive. This includes a dubious change in which some
   Senate members will be appointed by judges and officials (the rest
   will be elected, probably in March).

   Ideally the PPP-led government would offer the advantages of the
   previous TRT ones--sound macroeconomic management and policies to aid
   poor rural villagers--without the disadvantages, such as Mr Thaksin's
   autocratic tendencies and conflicts of interest. To boost flagging
   economic growth and weak investment, confidence in the stability and
   competence of government needs to be restored swiftly.

   Samak the knife

   However, Thailand's political strife may not yet be over. Mr Samak,
   abrasive and uncouth, may prove an even more divisive prime minister
   than Mr Thaksin. Mr Samak is a staunch royalist but he is also a foe
   of General Prem, so it cannot be guaranteed that the generals and the
   Thaksinites will kiss and make up, especially since Mr Samak wants to
   lift Mr Thaksin's five-year ban from politics, and halt the corruption
   inquiries the coupmakers instigated against him. Mr Thaksin insists he
   has retired from politics but not everyone believes he will keep his
   word. If he or close relatives take top jobs in the new
   administration, and especially if he uses his restored power to seek
   revenge on the coupmakers, he risks renewed street protests and a
   reaction from the army's hardliners.

   In the absence of such a disaster, history may look kindly on the
   perpetrators of Thailand's 18th coup since the end of absolute
   monarchy in 1932. They spilled no blood and kept their promise to
   restore democracy promptly. But they and their supporters would have
   been more nefarious had Thai public opinion not stopped them: they
   tried to insert a clause in the new constitution granting themselves
   sweeping powers in the event of a political conflict, and then tried
   to achieve the same by means of an ordinary law, which the
   military-appointed interim assembly watered down before passing last
   month.

   The generals signally failed to prove the claims of "rampant
   corruption" and other misdeeds by Mr Thaksin used to justify the coup.
   Worse, they did nothing to correct the most heinous abuses of his
   administration: extrajudicial killings by police during a 2003 "war on
   drugs" and two massacres in 2004 of Muslim protesters by security
   forces in Thailand's troubled south. The junta and those among the
   fickle Bangkok elite who excused the coup should have learned their
   lesson that extra-constitutional excursions do not solve problems.
   That, however, may be too much to hope.


   A president-elect starts to roll

   ASKED about the power of the president in South Korea, an aide to Lee
   Myung-bak, who was elected to the post last month, said he could do
   anything except change a man into a woman or a woman into a man. Not
   yet, anyway. Mr Lee, who will assume office on February 25th, will
   concentrate yet more power in the presidential palace, Seoul's Blue
   House.

   At a news conference this week, Mr Lee promised a slimmed-down
   government. The number of ministries will be cut from 18 to 13 by
   eliminating or merging functions. Important economic and
   foreign-policy decisions will come from his office. He has also
   promised to privatise state-owned banks and other businesses. Cuts in
   corporate and personal taxation are also in the offing. "The Korean
   economy is too large and too complex to be managed by the government,"
   he says. But he seems to intend giving it his best shot.

   In December Mr Lee urged the chairmen of the country's biggest
   conglomerates to invest more in their homeland. He has asked South
   Korea's mobile-phone operators to cut their charges. And he remains
   committed to building a canal system through the country. Critics
   deride the scheme as economic lunacy and a boon for construction
   companies such as the one Mr Lee used to run, Hyundai Construction.
   Others have drawn overblown comparisons between his leadership style
   and that of Park Chung-hee, a former military dictator with a penchant
   for economic micro-management.

   That may be unfair. Mr Lee was elected because the country responded
   to his pledge of faster economic growth. As befits a former
   businessman, he is pragmatic rather than ideological. He maintains
   uneasy relations with his conservative Grand National Party. The GNP
   is there to win him seats in April's parliamentary election so he can
   pass laws.

   Conservatives howled in protest when Kim Man-bok, boss of South
   Korea's spy agency, told North Korea that Mr Lee's election victory
   would not change the South's policy of engaging it. He was forced to
   make a public apology and resign. The same day, as if to emphasise his
   hardline credentials, Mr Lee visited the American army base in central
   Seoul.


   The election will probably happen. But who will respect the result? 


   PAKISTANIS are slightly relieved. Exactly a month before polling day,
   the largest of the parties that had been refusing to contest the
   country's controversial general election, due on January 8th 2008,
   called off its boycott. This was the Pakistan Muslim League (N) headed
   by a former prime minister, Nawaz Sharif. Another former prime
   minister, Benazir Bhutto, and Maulana Fazal ur Rehman, the senior
   partner in the five-party clerical alliance, Muttahida Majlis Amal
   (MMA), had earlier decided to take part, leaving Mr Sharif with the
   choice of following suit, or risking political isolation.

   The unpopular president, Pervez Musharraf, took a huge risk in calling
   an election which seemed likely to be seen as neither free nor fair.
   Is his poll being legitimised?

   On the face of it, it might seem so. Only two national politicians are
   boycotting the event now. One is Imran Khan, a
   cricketer-turned-politician. He barely won his seat in the last
   election, and his absence will not alter the way people perceive the
   legitimacy of the vote. The other is Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the fiery
   leader of the Jamaat-e-Islami, an Islamist party that is part of the
   MMA. He is a much more formidable figure. His refusal to participate
   will break up the MMA, which had become a significant force since
   winning 11% of the vote and about a fifth of the seats in the federal
   Parliament in 2002. It also controls two provincial governments, in
   Balochistan and the North Western Frontier. Its boycott may well
   please other parties.

   But it will not end the state of uncertainty. Opposition parties have
   banded together to accuse the caretaker government, handpicked by
   President Musharraf, of pre-poll rigging. They want the chief election
   commissioner, also appointed by Mr Musharraf, replaced and the state
   of emergency imposed on November 3rd lifted. Mr Musharraf has pledged
   to do the latter on December 15th but is in no mood to concede any
   other demand.

   But if the opposition is not sanguine about the election, neither is
   Mr Musharraf himself. Having quit as army chief on November 28th, he
   cannot rely on the army and needs his loyal supporters in the Pakistan
   Muslim League (Q) to sweep the polls in order to keep Ms Bhutto and Mr
   Sharif at bay. But various opinion polls show his rivals are leading
   the pack. One, by the Washington, DC-based International Republican
   Institute, found that 70% of Pakistanis do not think his government
   deserves re-election and 67% want him to resign immediately. This
   raises the spectre of vote-rigging, violence and even boycotts on
   polling day itself.

   That is not all. The government has given warning that
   al-Qaeda-inspired terrorists could disrupt the election by bombing
   rallies. This is not just scare-mongering: a suicide bomber attacked
   Ms Bhutto's homecoming and killed more than 140 people. She has since
   restricted her movements. The fear is that terrorist attacks might
   justify a postponement of the election, especially if the ruling party
   fears a rout. Ms Bhutto claims to be the most popular politician in
   the country. If she loses, she says, it will be because of
   vote-rigging--and she would refuse to accept such a result. Mr
   Musharraf called the election to end his country's political impasse.
   But a vote perceived as unfree and unfair might increase instability,
   not reduce it.


   A by-election about the territory's future

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

                                            Is Anson fairest of them all?


   IT MAY be only a by-election, but it is being portrayed as a vote on
   Hong Kong's future. It is certainly the biggest celebrity contest in
   the territory's voting history. On one side is Anson Chan, a former
   head of the civil service who wants full democracy at the next
   opportunity. On the other, Regina Ip, a former security minister who
   is not so sure. Neither are many voters.

   Mrs Chan's decision in September to enter the December 2nd contest has
   upset the government in Beijing. Since her retirement in 2001, Mrs
   Chan has gradually emerged as a champion of democracy in Hong Kong. In
   a contest organised in September by pro-democratic parties to choose a
   candidate for the by-election, Mrs Chan (who has no party ties) won
   hands down. Opinion polls at first put her streets ahead of Mrs Ip,
   who is backed by parties close to the mainland government.

   In the past few weeks the two ex-bureaucrats have been trying to
   reinvent themselves as politicians. Mrs Ip, 57, spent a night in a
   cramped apartment to experience the sufferings of residents caused by
   a nearby train line. Mrs Chan, a patrician 67-year-old, has been
   visiting the poor and standing on street corners handing out leaflets.
   Facing the occasional heckler, she says, has been a "humbling
   experience".

   Mrs Chan should not have to try this hard. The by-election is in Hong
   Kong Island, a constituency where around 60% of voters normally
   support democrats. In 2003 Mrs Ip became a target of the democrats'
   wrath for her brusque attempts as Hong Kong's security chief to
   promote an anti-subversion bill that they said would restrict civil
   liberties. Hong Kong is constitutionally required to pass such
   legislation, but huge protests and the withdrawal of support by some
   pro-government legislators forced the government to shelve the idea.
   Amid the furore, Mrs Ip resigned.

   But much has changed in the past four years. In 2005, at China's quiet
   urging, the then widely disliked chief executive, Tung Chee-hwa,
   stepped down. Hong Kong's economy has revived. Mrs Ip has apologised
   for her handling of the bill (though she still defends its contents).
   She returned to Hong Kong this year after earning a master's degree at
   Stanford University. Her time abroad taught her that "it's much better
   for government if you have a mandate from the people", she says. Mrs
   Ip's election platform calls for the chief executive and the
   legislative council (LegCo) to be elected by universal suffrage in
   2012 (though she would not object to delaying this to 2016 for LegCo
   and 2017 for the chief executive). Despite widespread demands earlier
   this decade for quicker reform, many voters now appear content with
   such a timetable.

   As Mrs Ip's support among pro-Beijing groups suggests, there is a
   catch. Nominees for the post of chief executive would need the support
   of at least 10% of each of four groups within a 1,800-strong
   nominating committee. One of these groups would represent the
   industrial, commercial and financial sector. Critics say it would be
   extremely difficult to persuade even a tenth of them to support a
   candidate disliked by Beijing, given their extensive business links
   with the mainland. Mrs Chan wants to set the threshold at 10% of the
   entire nominating committee. Mrs Ip's proposal, she says, is a "huge
   step backwards".

   Democrats concede that arguments over such fine detail do not excite
   voters. They fret that in elections to district councils on November
   18th they will lose some of the gains they made in 2003 after the
   uproar over the subversion bill. Although Mrs Chan is still the
   frontrunner in the December 2nd ballot, they worry that her margin may
   be slim. And even if Mrs Ip loses, she is most likely to win in LegCo
   elections next year that allow runners-up to get seats. All good
   training, perhaps, for an eventual bid to be chief executive.


   China tells the EU to dump on Taiwan. The EU asks "How hard?"


   ASK officials in Brussels about relations between China and the
   European Union, and you will soon hear the word "values". A recent EU
   strategy paper on China calls on Europe to pursue a "dynamic
   relationship with China based on our values", notably including
   democracy and human rights.

   Try telling that to Taiwan. It is about to receive a stern EU
   injunction to act "sensibly and responsibly" by scrapping a planned
   referendum asking voters whether they would like the island to seek
   membership of the United Nations under its historic name, the
   "Republic of China", or just "Taiwan".

   Why is the EU meddling? Taiwan is a thriving democracy and big trading
   partner (almost as important as India or Brazil). The explanation is
   simple and unedifying: the EU is doing China's bidding. Chinese rulers
   regard the Taiwan referendum as a sneaky step closer to an eventual
   declaration of formal independence by the island.

   China expends extraordinary energy on pestering other governments to
   preserve the strange limbo inhabited by Taiwan, a self-governing
   island of 23m that it insists is a wayward province. Whenever Taiwan
   irks China, its ambassadors appear at foreign ministries worldwide,
   demanding that Taiwan be rebuked.

   An internal EU memorandum sheds light on the way such strong-arm
   diplomacy works. Prepared by officials working under Javier Solana,
   the EU's foreign-policy supremo, it describes a meeting, late last
   month, between the Chinese ambassador to the EU, Guan Chengyuan, and a
   top Eurocrat. According to EU note-takers, Mr Guan called the
   referendum provocative and destabilising, and said China wanted EU
   support, as it did not want to have to use "the last resort"--an
   apparent reference to its threat to use force, if necessary, to
   "reunify" Taiwan.

   The memorandum records Mr Guan's EU host as agreeing that a referendum
   is against Taiwan's own interests, and offering to send a "clear and
   forceful" message to Taipei to that effect. America, which has many
   reasons to seek China's diplomatic goodwill, has publicly rebuked
   Taiwan over the referendum. The EU, in contrast, will stick to private
   warnings for the moment, to avoid "playing into the hands" of Taiwan's
   "populist" president, Chen Shui-bian, by giving him "undesirable"
   publicity.

   Portugal, which took over the six-month rotating presidency of the EU
   this month, has duly drafted a private warning to Taiwan, saying that
   a referendum risks raising tensions and would be "unhelpful". A
   parallel message is to be sent to China, urging restraint.

   UN membership for Taiwan is a long-lost cause, and Mr Chen's
   referendum plan is at heart an electoral ploy ahead of next year's
   presidential poll. But that is the sort of thing that happens in a
   democracy. One dissenting EU diplomat says the Union is pretending
   there is "moral equivalence" between Taiwanese election politics and
   Chinese threats of violence. Certainly, this is not how most people
   understand the EU's oft-professed values.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   The stadiums, transport, ticketing, air pollution and even the weather
   are under control; shame about the people


   WITH exactly a year to go, the organisers of next year's Beijing
   Olympic games on August 8th set their countdown clock ticking in
   earnest--and in grand style, with a three-hour, nationally televised
   song-and-dance extravaganza in Tiananmen Square. Lest there were any
   doubt at all as to the intended message, the glitzy show featured a
   purpose-written anthem entitled "We are ready!"

   In discussing their readiness, Chinese officials seem most keen to
   talk about the impressive collection of new and renovated sports
   venues that will house the competitions, such as the National Stadium
   (above), and the equally impressive array of new roads, railways, and
   metro lines that will ferry the massive crush of spectators and
   athletes around the chronically congested city. Other logistics seem
   likewise well in hand. The ticketing programme, organisers say, is
   proceeding smoothly. And although officials think they will need
   100,000 volunteers to help run the games, they have already received
   more than 560,000 applications.

   On the hardware side of the ledger, and especially when it comes to
   the venues themselves, it would seem every detail has indeed been
   attended to. Not only will all 37 venues be completed well in advance,
   officials promise, but they will be ready for any contingency. What
   if, for example, rain threatens to turn the Olympic beach-volleyball
   court into a mud pit? Never fear: after scouring the nation and
   testing different sand varieties for their water drainage properties,
   planners have located the very finest grains on distant Hainan island,
   and shipped 17,000 tonnes to Beijing.

   Despite the choking, hazy, smog-laden pall that has hung over Beijing
   for much of this summer, planners are also likely to succeed in
   bringing Beijing's notorious air pollution down to more bearable
   levels during the games. If, to achieve this or ease road congestion,
   they have to impose draconian restrictions on traffic and industrial
   activity in the weeks before the games, they will have the authority
   they need to do so. Even the weather is taken care of. Officials at
   Beijing's municipal Weather Modification Office say the timely
   launching of chemicals into the atmosphere will allow them to dispel
   clouds and largely control the time and place of rainfall.

   The government seems far less prepared, however, when it comes to the
   delicate business of handling the activists and pressure groups that
   are sure to use the event as a soapbox for their many and varied
   criticisms of its policies. Whether to do with labour rights,
   religious freedom, the mistreatment of ethnic minorities or general
   political repression, there is no shortage of causes, and no shortage
   of champions prepared to take advantage of the Olympic spotlight.

   The city already had a foretaste of this in the week marking the
   launch of the one-year countdown. At the Great Wall, on the outskirts
   of Beijing, a group of Tibetans from Britain, Canada and America
   displayed a huge banner proclaiming, "One World, One Dream, Free Tibet
   2008". The slogan plays on Beijing's official Olympic motto, "One
   World, One Dream". A similar protest was mounted (and a similar banner
   unfurled) in April, at the Mount Everest base camp in Tibet.

   In central Beijing, meanwhile, another international pressure group,
   Reporters Without Borders, conducted a small but colourful
   demonstration on August 6th outside the Olympic headquarters, accusing
   China of doing little to honour the promises it has been making about
   press and political freedom since it was chosen in 2001 to host the
   games. At the start of the year the foreign ministry instituted new
   and more liberal rules for foreign journalists working in China. It
   seems not, however, to have informed all the police. At the
   demonstration on August 6th, some foreign reporters were roughed up
   and detained on the spot for an hour.

   The government this week repeated its "resolute opposition to the
   politicisation of the Olympics". But it is not only foreign critics of
   China who are testing that resolve. In a brave open letter, a group of
   prominent Chinese activists and intellectuals--former political
   prisoners among them--took their own liberties with the official
   slogan. Entitled "One World, One Dream, Universal Human Rights", the
   letter was addressed to China's leaders as well as heads of
   international organisations including the United Nations and the
   International Olympic Committee.

   "We find no consolation or comfort", wrote the dissidents, "in the
   rise of grandiose sports facilities, or a temporarily beautified
   Beijing city, or the prospect of Chinese athletes winning medals. We
   know too well how these glories are built on the ruins of the lives of
   ordinary people."

   Such a letter is cause for concern for China's leadership, for more
   reasons than one. Not only does it give the lie to any argument that
   agitation over human rights is limited to meddling, ill-intentioned
   foreigners, but it also signals that the internal propaganda
   objectives of the Olympic endeavour may not be so easy to meet as had
   seemed likely.

   Much of the world assumes--with justification--that China hopes to use
   the games as a global coming-out party, raising its international
   profile and softening its image. But another important goal is to
   convey to the domestic audience that China has the stature and ability
   to take its place at the centre of the world stage. Neither goal will
   be well served next year by ham-fisted responses to criticism.


   Golly: the Dear Leader won't come clean about his bombs 


   ANOTHER deadline, another disappointment. Last February North Korea
   agreed with four of its neighbours and the United States to give up
   its ambitions as a nuclear power in return for lashings of aid and
   rehabilitation from its standing as an international pariah. Crucial
   to the deal was North Korea's subsequent promise to declare all its
   nuclear activities by December 31st. The deadline came. It went. From
   Pyongyang, not a squeak.

   Though hardly out of keeping for such a secretive, recalcitrant
   regime, the silence has generated unease, even embarrassment, among
   North Korea's counterparts in the six-party talks hosted by China,
   which, typically, described the hold-up as "natural". But the
   administration of President George Bush reversed a once hostile policy
   in the past year in an attempt to prove that engagement with North
   Korea, even after it let off a nuclear bomb, could work. America's
   patience will have limits.

   For now it will not sound the alarm. After all, an earlier part of the
   deal, the closure of the Soviet-era nuclear reactor at Yongbyon in
   July, came three months later than promised. Since then American
   inspectors have moved into Yongbyon to see that it is disabled and
   eventually dismantled. December 31st was also meant to be the deadline
   for Yongbyon's disablement, which was missed as well. But this week
   America was at pains to stress North Korean technical co-operation. If
   anything, it said, the delay was because of its own insistence that
   due care be taken in removing the thousands of fuel rods from the
   ageing reactor.

   A few weeks' delay in the declaration of North Korea's nuclear
   programmes would be tolerable. Any longer and the six-party process
   would be in trouble. For the nuclear programmes are the crux of the
   matter. Declaring them was never going to come easily to Kim Jong Il,
   North Korea's "Dear Leader". His nuclear weapons, however few and
   feeble, provide his only leverage against the world. Yet America is
   unlikely to stand for any bluff--not least because of suspicions that
   a Syrian site bombed by Israel in September was a nuclear facility
   that had North Korean help.

   The questions now are not only how much plutonium North Korea has
   extracted and how many warheads it has made. The Bush administration
   also wants to know the scale of the programme to enrich uranium to
   which North Korea admitted in 2002. Earlier claims by America about
   its scale seem exaggerated; still, it has evidence that Pakistan's
   nuclear racketeer, Abdul Qadeer Khan (see [4]article), sold the North
   uranium-enriching gear.

   Hitherto, those in the six-party talks have given North Korea the
   benefit of the doubt: only Japan has been openly sceptical about the
   North's sincerity--at least until it has come clean about the Japanese
   kidnapped by the regime in the 1970s and 1980s. Now Mr Kim may face a
   hardening of the ranks. However badly Mr Bush needs a foreign-policy
   success, he will not move towards normalising relations with North
   Korea before nuclear progress. As for South Korea, President Roh
   Moo-hyun has until now seen no evil; yet even his foreign minister now
   admits that dealing with a nuclear North Korea is a Sisyphean task.
   What is more, Mr Roh steps down next month and his conservative
   successor, Lee Myung-bak, is no fan of "sunshine diplomacy". He
   promotes a harder line to the North: aid and investment from Seoul
   should follow nuclear disablement.

   Mr Kim may yet come clean on his programmes, and denuclearisation
   continue apace. If he doesn't, it is not obvious what the world can do
   about it.


   China's economy is smaller than was thought

   AMERICANS may well be delighted by new figures that show China's GDP
   is 40% smaller than previously thought. Has the devious Beijing
   government been massaging the numbers, as communist planners are wont
   to do? Hardly. China's GDP in yuan terms remains unchanged. What has
   happened is that the World Bank has changed the calculations it uses
   to make international comparisons of the size of economies.

   Converting a poor country's GDP into dollars at market exchange rates
   can understate the true size because a dollar buys much more in an
   emerging market such as China than it does in America. The IMF and the
   World Bank therefore prefer to convert GDPs into dollars using
   purchasing-power parities (or PPPs), which take account of price
   differences between countries.

   Previous estimates of China's PPP were largely guesswork. Now the
   World Bank has produced new calculations based on a survey of prices
   of over 1,000 goods and services in 146 countries, including China for
   the first time. On this basis, China's GDP in 2005 was $5.3 trillion,
   compared with $2.2 trillion using market exchange rates and $8.9
   trillion using previous PPP estimates. This was still well below
   America's $12.4 trillion that year (see chart).

   But this does not mean China's economic miracle has been just a
   statistical artefact. The revisions do not reduce China's growth
   rate--the fastest over 30 years of any large country in history. It
   remains the world's largest producer and consumer of steel, the
   second-biggest user of energy and even on revised figures the world's
   second-largest economy. In 2008 it is almost certain to overtake
   Germany as the world's largest exporter, and assuming recent rates of
   growth are sustained, within ten years it will overtake America (in
   PPP terms) as the world's largest economy.

   China itself has always played down the PPP numbers, hoping to portray
   itself as a poor country so America will give it more leeway when
   arguing about exchange rates and trade. China's policymakers will not
   be unhappy with their new, slimline figure. Indians, in contrast, love
   to boast that their GDP overtook Japan's in 2006 to become the world's
   third-biggest. Unfortunately, this is no longer true: its GDP has also
   been slashed by almost 40%.

   With Brazil's GDP also down a bit, the share of emerging economies in
   world output (including Asia's newly industrialising economies) has
   been cut to 46% in 2005, compared with over 50% on the old numbers.
   Their economic dominance has merely been postponed.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e09as761;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world756;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=87308391?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=8993729
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world756;ord=1;num=1?

                                                                   Landov

                                   Landov

   India's government is threatening to make companies hire more
   low-caste workers 


   A 23-YEAR-OLD dressed in white pyjama trousers and a black over-shirt
   represents two worlds in India that know almost nothing of each other.
   One is fast growing, but tiny: the world of business. Strolling
   through the Californian-style campus in Bangalore that serves as the
   headquarters of Infosys, a computer-services company, she grins and
   declares herself glad. Her brother, she adds shyly, is so proud that
   she is an "Infoscion".

   He is in the rural world where 70% of Indians reside: cultivating the
   family plot in Bannahalli Hundi, a village near Mysore. Life is less
   delightful there. Half the 4,000 population are brahmins, of the Hindu
   priestly caste. The rest, including the software engineer and her
   family, are dalits, members of a "scheduled caste" that was once
   considered untouchable.

   Sixty years on this is still the case in Bannahalli Hundi, says the
   young woman, who does not want to be named. She has never entered the
   house of a brahmin neighbour. When a dalit was recently hired to cook
   at the village school, brahmins withdrew their children. Has there
   been no weakening of caste strictures in her lifetime? "I have not
   seen it," she says.

   The tale is in startling contrast to Infosys's modernity, and she is
   embarrassed by it. But it partly explains how she came to be hired by
   a company that is considered to be one of India's best. She is the
   beneficiary of a charitable training scheme for dalit
   university-leavers that Infosys launched last year.

   In collaboration with the elite Bangalore-based International
   Institute of Information Technology (IIIT), Infosys is providing
   special training to low-caste engineering graduates who have failed to
   get a job in its industry. The training, which lasts seven months,
   does not promise employment. But of the 89 who completed the first
   course in May, all but four have found jobs. Infosys hired 17.

   The charity was born of a threat. India's Congress-led government has
   told companies to hire more dalits and members of tribal communities.
   Together these groups represent around a quarter of India's population
   and half of its poor. Manmohan Singh, the prime minister, has given
   warning that "strong measures" will be taken if companies do not
   comply. Many interpret that to mean the government will impose
   caste-based hiring quotas.

   Quotas already apply in education and government, where since 1950
   22.5% of university places and government jobs have been "reserved"
   for dalits and tribal people. In addition, since 1993, 27% of
   government jobs have been reserved for members of the Other Backward
   Classes (OBCs)--castes only slightly higher up the Hindu hierarchy.

   Promoting the wretched

   This is not enough for supporters of reservations. Since the
   introduction of liberal reforms in the early 1990s, public-sector
   hiring has slowed and businesses have boomed. Extending reservations
   to companies, they argue, would therefore safeguard an existing policy
   of promoting the Hindu wretched. It would almost certainly require
   changes to the constitution. But low-caste politicians are delighted
   by the prospect, so it could happen.

   The chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, a dalit leader called Mayawati,
   has said 30% of company jobs should be reserved for dalits, members of
   the OBCs and high-caste and Muslim poor. Chandra Bhan Prasad, a dalit
   journalist, applauds this and argues that it would be in the interest
   of companies. "It is in the culture of dalits that they are least
   likely to change their employment because they are so loyal to their
   masters," he says. It would also help them become a "new caste [sic]
   of consumers".

   Businessmen are unconvinced. Government, in both its intrusiveness and
   its incompetence, is a hindrance to them. Caste-based hiring quotas
   would be just another burden. People given a right to a job tend not
   to work very hard. So, in an effort to avert Mr Singh's threat, many
   companies and organisations that represent them are launching their
   own affirmative-action schemes.

   The Confederation of Indian Industry has introduced a package of
   dalit-friendly measures, including scholarships for bright low-caste
   students. The Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry
   plans to support entrepreneurs in India's poorest districts.
   [4]Naukri.com, India's biggest online recruitment service, with over
   10m subscribers, anticipates that companies will soon actively seek
   low-caste recruits. It has therefore started asking job-seekers to
   register their caste.

   Basic training

   Infosys's training scheme, as described by S. Sadagopan, the IIIT'S
   director, is a Pygmalion undertaking. Meeting the parents of his dalit
   students, he saw "almost an anger in their eyes". For the first month
   the students were unresponsive. Their English was dismal. Mr Sadagopan
   felt compelled to introduce lessons in self-presentation, including
   table manners.

   Matters improved. The course was based on Infosys's 16-week basic
   training, which 31,000 Indian graduates underwent last year. The
   low-caste lot scored similar marks and gained confidence. At a bonding
   session, filled with meditation and dancing, they wrote themselves a
   slogan: "As good as any, better than many".

   It is a moving story. But Mr Sadagopan's students were not all that
   deprived. In the words of three, now working for Infosys, they were
   "normal middle-class Indians". A third of them were the sons and
   daughters of professionals. The worst had grades only a little below
   what Infosys routinely demands of its recruits. Almost all were from
   urban areas, where caste discrimination is rare.

   One of them, Manjunath, says the only time he was ever reminded of his
   low caste was when he applied for a place at university. Had it not
   been reserved for him, he says, he might have worked a bit harder--and
   so joined Infosys without any special help. As for his colleague from
   Bannahalli Hundi, coming from one of the richer families in the
   village, she is its first female university graduate--of any caste.

   The most that can be said for Infosys's programme--without devaluing
   Mr Sadagopan's efforts--is that it is a great opportunity for a tiny
   number of middle-class Indians, who happen also to be low-caste. The
   same would be true of caste-based reservations. This is because the
   percentage of India's workforce employed in the "organised" private
   sector (made up of firms that declare they have ten or more
   employees), where reservations might be applied, is also tiny: around
   2%. And as far as anyone can tell (companies do not ask the caste of
   their employees), members of low castes are already well represented
   in low-skilled jobs there. Much of India's heavy industry, such as
   steelmaking, is located where the low-caste population is high. Tata
   Steel, which employs around 40,000 people in India, has its main
   operations in Jamshedpur, in the eastern "tribal belt".

   Membership of a caste, as of a guild or a church, provides businessmen
   with a useful network. In the informal economy, where banks fear to
   tread, caste bonds tend to be affirmed through business. The fact that
   most Indian companies are family-owned exaggerates this: to prevent
   wealth being diluted, it encourages marriages not only within the same
   caste, but also within the same family. A sugar baroness of south
   India's kamma caste, Rajshree Pathy, recently explained this practice
   to an Indian newspaper, the Business Standard: "The PSG family
   produces girls, the Lakshmi Mills family produces boys, they marry
   each other and live happily ever after."

   The modernisation of India's economy has brought more dynamic change.
   Among educated, urban Indians caste identity is fading. Inter-caste
   marriages are increasing. According to [5]Jeevansathi.com, a
   matchmaking (or, as Indians say, "matrimonial") website, 58% of its
   online matches involved inter-caste couples. Meanwhile, in rural
   India--where unions are not fixed online--intra-caste marriages remain
   the norm.

   Business has to some degree been a laggard in this process. Caste
   bonds rooted in expediency, not tradition, allow businessmen to borrow
   and lend money with a degree of accountability, which helps to
   minimise risk. They are not an affirmation of a vocational hierarchy
   within the Hindu universe. Nonetheless, in north India, where business
   is to this day dominated by members of ancient trading castes, like
   marwaris (whose famous names include Birla, Bajaj and Mittal) and
   bania (Ambani), it can look pretty traditional.

   Rites of passage

   Harish Damodaran investigated the caste origins of many of India's
   industrialists in a forthcoming book[6]*. He identified three main
   trends. The first, which he calls a "bazaar to factory" route, is the
   passage of hereditary traders into industry. In northern India, some
   castes' monopolies have discouraged them from leaving their
   traditionally prescribed employment. So members of north India's
   farming castes--for example, jats and yadavs--rarely own a sugar or
   flour mill.

   The second trend, "office to factory", describes a recent movement of
   well-educated high-caste Hindus, including brahmins, into business.
   Lacking capital, these sophisticates tended to enter the services
   sector, where start-up costs are relatively low. India's world-class
   computer-services industry, including companies like Infosys, is the
   result.

   The third trajectory, "field to factory", is the transition into the
   business world of members of India's middle and lower-peasant castes.
   This must be the path of India's dalits, too. But they have not
   trodden it yet: across India, Mr Damodaran could not find a
   significant dalit industrialist.

   There is no strong evidence that companies discriminate against
   low-caste job applicants. Upper-class Indians, who tend also to be
   high-caste Hindus, can be disparaging about their low-caste
   compatriots. "Once a thicky, always a thicky," is how a rich
   businessman describes Ms Mayawati. Yet this at least partly reflects
   the fact that low-caste Hindus tend also to be low class; and in
   India, as in many countries, class prejudice is profound.

   There is, on the other hand, plenty of evidence that few able
   low-caste graduates are emerging from India's universities. Since it
   began registering the caste of its subscribers--almost by definition
   computer-literate and English-speaking--[7]Naukri.com has added 38,000
   young dalit and tribal job-seekers to its books. That represents 1% of
   the total who have registered in that time.

   For reservationists, this confirms the need for quotas. Others
   interpret the facts differently: reservations don't seem to work. And
   statistics support this view. Reservations notwithstanding, low-caste
   Indians are getting less poor at almost the same rate as the general
   population. Between 1983 and 2004, their spending power increased by
   26.7%, compared with 27.7% for the average Indian, according to the
   National Sample Survey Organisation, a government body.

   Low-caste students struggle in schools without special help, which is
   rarely available. Their English--the language of India's middle
   class--tends to be poor. Many drop out. Up to half of university
   places reserved for low-caste students are left vacant. So, too, are
   many of the university posts reserved for low-caste teachers. Most
   Indians emerge from this system with an abysmal education. Low-caste
   Indians perhaps almost invariably do.

   A measure of this fiasco can be found at the political-science
   department of one of India's prestigious post-graduate universities.
   Each year it chooses 50 students, from 1,500 applications, for its
   master's degree. Successful applicants will average no less than 55%
   in their undergraduate exams. Dalit applicants scrape in with as
   little as 30%. Nonetheless, practically every student will be awarded
   a first-class degree.

   India is failing to equip its young, of whatever caste or religion,
   with the skills that its companies need. This is one of the biggest
   threats to sustaining high economic growth. India's outstanding
   computer-services companies--which will account for around a quarter
   of overall growth in the next few years--intend to hire over 1m
   engineering graduates in the next two years. It will be tough. To
   recruit 31,000 graduates last year, Infosys considered 1.3m
   applicants; only 65,000 passed a basic test. To address the skills
   shortage, the company is investing a whopping $450m in training. "We
   are building India's human resources," says Mohandas Pai, Infosys's
   chief of human resources.

   Alas, reservationists have other concerns. Caste politics are
   pervasive. On August 28th the Supreme Court struck down an effort by
   Andhra Pradesh's government to reserve 4% of government jobs and
   education places for poor Muslims. The court is meanwhile weighing a
   more dramatic measure announced by the government last year: to
   reserve 27% of university places for the OBCs. To placate irate
   students, many of them high-caste, the government promises to increase
   the number of university places accordingly. Education standards would
   no doubt fall further.

   Even so, the policy may be unstoppable. Since reservations for the
   OBCs were introduced in the early 1990s the rise of political parties
   dedicated to these groups has been inexorable. So has the
   proliferation of the OBCs, to around 3,000 castes. They include
   millions who are not poor at all.

   "A massive deliberate confusion" is how Surjit Bhalla, an economist at
   Oxus Investments, a hedge fund, characterises reservations for the
   OBCs. When they were awarded reservations, the OBCs were estimated to
   make up 53% of India's total population. More recent counting suggests
   they are only about one-third of the population, although their 27%
   reservation remains unchanged. Moreover, by most measures, the average
   OBC member is no poorer than the average Indian. "How can you
   discriminate against the average?" asks Mr Bhalla, despairingly.

   There by mistake

   And despair he may. Practically no politician dares speak out against
   this caste-based racket for fear of being labelled an apologist for
   the caste system. Rather like guests at the Hotel California, those
   that join the list never leave--even one or two castes that were
   allegedly included by mistake. The surpassing example is Tamil Nadu,
   which reserves a total of 69% of government jobs: 1% for tribal
   people, 18% for dalits, 30% for the OBCs and 20% for a subset of
   them--members of castes once categorised by British colonisers as
   "criminal tribes" and now known more delicately as "de-notified
   communities".

   There is little opposition to this policy in Tamil Nadu, for two
   reasons. It is one of India's more literate and prosperous states. And
   low-caste Hindus are unusually prominent in Tamil Nadu, which suggests
   to reservationists that the policy is working well. Textiles companies
   in Tirupur, a T-shirt hub, for example, are mostly owned by gounders,
   members of a peasant caste that is officially listed as an OBC.

   One defender of the policy is N. Vasudevan, chief official of the
   Kafkaesque vision of bureaucratic hell that is the Backward Classes,
   Most Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare Department in Chennai,
   where workers languish behind mountains of never-opened files. Asked
   when it might end he replies: "When everyone becomes equal."

   There is an alternative view: that Tamil Nadu is more equal than most
   states not because it has lots of reservations but because, overall,
   it has been run less badly. It has therefore delivered above-average
   economic growth, from which low-caste Tamils have benefited.

   In addition, low-caste businessmen in Tamil Nadu have had
   opportunities that have nothing to do with government policy. In
   contrast to north India, where commerce is dominated by members of a
   few business castes, south India's business community has been more
   open to members of non-business castes. According to Raman Mahadevan,
   a business historian, this is partly because members of the south's
   main trading caste, the chettiars, chose to concentrate their
   investments outside India during the 19th century, in Malaya and
   Singapore.

   Partly as a result, little large-scale industry emerged in southern
   India until the 1930s. Around the same time, a popular movement
   against brahmins--especially lordly in the south--emboldened members
   of the lower and middle castes, including gounders, who were quick to
   convert their new assertiveness into business.

   The Hindu caste system has never been rigid. Low-caste Hindus do not
   accept their lumpen position in the hierarchy. Indeed, like
   middle-class English families, they tend to cherish a myth of their
   former greatness. By imitating the habits of a more prestigious
   neighbour, in dress or ritual, some low castes have sneaked a rung or
   two up the ladder. More recently, in an effort to be classified as an
   OBC or a dalit caste, some middle-ranking castes have tried to climb a
   rung or two down.

   Meanwhile, on the lowest rung of the ladder, dalit businessmen can be
   found operating in the informal economy, perhaps as small traders.
   They must be especially reliant on caste as a business network. But
   that reliance will change if they can expand into the organised
   sector. Where businessmen can gain access to credit without having to
   claim kinship, caste affiliations wither. As Mr Damodaran writes: "A
   kamma sugar magnate ultimately identifies his interests with other
   mill-owners and not with fellow kamma cane growers or workers." And
   his business may flourish, unfettered.
   [gray.gif]

   * "India's New Capitalists: Caste, Business and Industry in a Modern
   Nation-State." By Harish Damodaran. Permanent Black/Palgrave
   Macmillan.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e09as761;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world756;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=98908109?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=9250206
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world756;ord=1;num=1?

   Beijing blocks open elections in Hong Kong until at least 2017


   TO DIM the impact of what it had to know would be unpopular news,
   China's government waited until the Saturday evening of the New Year's
   weekend to reveal its long-awaited reaction to Hong Kong's petition
   for a democratic government. The answer came in two forms. There was a
   long, muddled, pledge that appeared to honour the request by setting a
   timetable for a direct popular election for the territory's "chief
   executive". And there was a tough underlying message: no such election
   until two more five-year chief-executive terms have been completed,
   ie, until 2017, if then; and all candidates will have to be approved
   by the central government. Democracy, in short, only in name.
   Similarly, it will not be until 2020, at the earliest, that Hong
   Kong's citizens will have the right to elect directly all the members
   of the city's legislature.

   The decision follows a lengthy study by the Hong Kong government and,
   no doubt, lengthy consideration in Beijing. Local opinion polls show
   huge support among Hong Kong citizens for democracy. A recent
   by-election for one of the directly elected seats in the legislature
   resulted in a symbolically important victory for a pro-democracy
   candidate, Anson Chan, the territory's most senior civil servant
   during the handover from British rule a decade ago. But the Chinese
   government and its supporters have recently taken an increasingly
   chauvinistic line. Pro-mainland papers hammered Mrs Chan. A mild
   opinion piece by a long-time democracy advocate, Martin Lee, in the
   Wall Street Journal, urging countries to push for human rights during
   the Beijing Olympics later this year, led to his being pilloried in
   terms reminiscent of the Cultural Revolution: "Traitor Lee!"; "Running
   dog!"

   In protest at China's electoral timetable, there was a lightly
   attended bicycle rally on January 1st. A bigger rally is planned for
   January 13th. But it is unlikely that the turnout will match the
   hundreds of thousands who protested in 2003 against proposed
   restrictions on civil liberties. At the time, SARS, a respiratory
   disease, was raging, the economy was in a funk and discontent
   widespread. Now, times are good. Restaurants are packed and
   unemployment low. The present chief executive, Donald Tsang, was
   installed by China in 2005 and so bears the burden of being a puppet.
   But he is respected as a capable administrator and would have won
   re-election in a popular election in 2007 if one had been held. To
   some extent, mollifying China is considered part of the job.

   Now Mr Tsang will have to come up with an electoral plan for the
   coming years that will placate public impatience but not alarm China.
   This may not be possible. So he has given warning that heated argument
   might jeopardise Hong Kong's "stability and development". This threat
   is not taken lightly. The city prides itself on functioning
   efficiently in an often chaotic continent. Of course, the best way to
   ensure continued stability would be to let the people of Hong Kong run
   their own city. But Beijing is loth to let democracy take root in this
   "Special Administrative Region" lest it sets a precedent elsewhere in
   China.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   South Korea's Roh Moo-hyun plays down expectations for an historic
   summit

   GLIDING across the border in a 30-limousine convoy, Roh Moo-hyun,
   South Korea's president, will on October 2nd visit Pyongyang and meet
   North Korea's capo, Kim Jong Il, for three days of talks. It is only
   the second summit between the two sides since their estrangement in a
   civil war over half a century ago.

   The first, seven years ago, was between Mr Kim and Mr Roh's
   predecessor, Kim Dae-jung, who launched a "sunshine policy" towards
   the North. The meeting generated euphoria among South Koreans and won
   their president a Nobel peace prize, but produced little else. Kim
   Jong Il never came to Seoul, as he promised he would. Relations
   deteriorated between North Korea and the United States, South Korea's
   protector. And last year the North tested a nuclear bomb, to the
   region's dismay. As for the summit itself, it later transpired it was
   bought with cash passed under the table to the Dear Leader.

   Mr Roh knows things have changed. The national mood towards
   reconciliation is subdued, even sceptical. Lacking Kim Dae-jung's
   charisma, his own political authority is at rock-bottom, after an
   ineffective presidency; he stands down at the end of the year. The
   only constant is that the summit's agenda is whatever Mr Kim decides
   it will be, and that he is not letting on: so, as one of Mr Roh's
   advisers delicately puts it, the summit is "open-ended".

   While dampening expectations, Mr Roh clearly hopes for a breakthrough
   in one or more of three areas: in reducing tensions and furthering
   peace on the Korean peninsula; deeper economic co-operation with the
   benighted North; and reconciliation of the many thorny issues--such as
   the tens of thousands of families separated since the Korean war--that
   might bring the distant goal of unification a tad closer. Above
   anything, Mr Roh appears to want to come home waving a scrap of paper
   with "peace" written on it.

   Hawks, particularly in America, say that Mr Roh's ambitions risk
   running ahead of the "six-party" process in which America, China,
   Japan, Russia and South Korea are hoping to get North Korea to abandon
   its nuclear ambitions. Too much offered by the South might lead the
   North to hope for aid without scrapping its nuclear programmes. It is
   not certain that Mr Roh will even bring up the nuclear issue with Mr
   Kim. Meanwhile, say some of Mr Roh's critics, peace with the North is
   a matter for all the former combatants of the Korean war, China and
   America included.

   Mr Roh's men deny there is any risk. The president's hopes for
   economic co-operation and reconciliation are being entertained only
   because of progress on denuclearisation, they say; in July, North
   Korea closed its Soviet-era reactor at Yongbyon and has since promised
   to declare and disable all its programmes by the end of the year. They
   argue that it will do the liberal Mr Roh no favours if he returns with
   a deal that is unacceptable to his successor as president (the clear
   favourite is Lee Myung-bak, whose right-wing Grand National Party has
   a harder line towards North Korea). As for economic co-operation, says
   a close adviser, it has been far too one-sided to date, with North
   Korea simply taking South Korean money, fuel-oil and rice, much of
   which finds its way to the armed forces. From now on, the South
   expects much more--starting with the chance to invest in the North's
   rich mineral resources and cheap labour. To press home the point,
   two-dozen business executives will accompany Mr Roh.

   Some expect the North to go surprisingly far. Chung-in Moon of Yonsei
   University, an architect of the "sunshine policy", argues that
   decrepit North Korea is on the brink of opening up just as China did
   three decades ago, because Kim Jong Il recognises that his legitimacy
   now rests on future prosperity.

   But outside help is hard to imagine without progress on the nuclear
   issue. The United States classes North Korea as an enemy; it also
   brands the country as a state sponsor of terrorism. Both hobble North
   Korea's ability to trade. America offers to lift these curses in
   return for a real disablement of North Korea's nuclear capabilities.

   On September 27th the six-party talks reconvened in Beijing. Their
   outlook was clouded by a mysterious recent Israeli air strike at a
   Syrian target that some claimed was a North Korea-assisted nuclear
   facility. North Korea vigorously denies this and American diplomats
   say they have seen no intelligence confirming it. Negotiators, wanting
   nothing to distract North Korea from a timetable for denuclearisation,
   are inclined to gloss over the matter. For the timetable, as it is,
   involves some quite devilish details.


   Labor is working. Non-stop


   WHEN he led Australia's Labor Party to a resounding election victory
   last November, Kevin Rudd warned members of his new cabinet they could
   expect just two days off at Christmas. Even for a workaholic such as
   Mr Rudd, this proved optimistic. Australia traditionally sinks into a
   summer slumber in January. The new prime minister wisely reconsidered
   and took a two-week holiday himself. Back at work on January 14th, he
   at once sent signals that he plans to be as stingy with taxpayers'
   money as he expects his ministers to be with their free time.

   The next day he and Wayne Swan, the treasurer (finance minister),
   visited the Sydney headquarters of Australia's independent central
   bank. Mr Swan explained that the meeting was all about showing
   government "restraint" in a bid to tame inflation. Labor took power
   with a mandate to change the political climate. But the economy looms
   as its biggest worry.

   After more than 16 consecutive years of growth, some measures of
   inflation are running at about 3% a year. The central bank has raised
   interest rates six times since 2004; economists predict another rise
   in February. On top of these, Australia's big retail banks have raised
   their rates in response to the global credit crunch.

   A survey this week showed a sharp fall in consumer confidence. Mr
   Rudd's ministers will finger the former conservative government of
   John Howard. Over 11 years in power, especially the past three, Mr
   Howard was prone to splashing money around to buy votes. All this will
   make it hard for Mr Rudd to meet his own election promise to pour
   money into health and education, and to phase in tax cuts worth A$31
   billion ($28 billion). Mr Swan has already pledged to cut A$10 billion
   from spending in his first budget in May.

   On foreign policy, Mr Rudd has shown he means business in taking a
   less blustery and less pro-American approach in Australia's region.
   After his election, the first foreign leader Mr Rudd invited to his
   Brisbane home was Helen Clark, the prime minister of New Zealand. Then
   he went to the UN climate-change conference in Bali and reversed the
   Howard government's refusal to ratify the Kyoto protocol.

   On January 15th the government also reversed Mr Howard's decision to
   sell uranium to India. Australia holds about 40% of the world's known
   uranium, and the deal was less about commerce than about backing an
   American agreement on civil nuclear co-operation with India. It went
   against the grain of Australia's refusal up to then to sell uranium to
   India and other countries that had not signed the Nuclear
   Non-Proliferation Treaty.

   For all this, Mr Rudd remains possibly the most enigmatic prime
   minister Australians have elected. The real balance of conservative,
   reformer and radical in him remains to be discovered once Parliament
   resumes in February. He has ordained already that Parliament will sit
   for five days a week instead of four. Reluctantly granted a holiday in
   January, his ministers can expect little sleep for the rest of the
   year.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e09as761;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world756;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=74724429?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=10342348
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world756;ord=1;num=1?

   Big Brother's CCTV

   GEORGE ORWELL wrote of the Ministry of Truth (in his novel, "1984")
   that it was "startlingly different from any other object in sight".
   The same applies to China Central Television's new headquarters in
   Beijing. It is one of the world's biggest and most architecturally
   ambitious buildings, often described as a twisted doughnut with two
   leaning towers connected by an impossible looking L-shaped overhang.

   The edifice was designed by Rem Koolhaas, a Dutch architect whose
   company's [3]website describes the building (Orwellianism not
   intended) as "a canopy that symbolically embraces the entire
   population". The state-owned broadcaster's move from an obscure part
   of western Beijing to a new international business district highlights
   its global aspirations.

   For more than a year, passers-by have watched the 230-metre (750-foot)
   towers creep up at a perilous six-degree angle. On December 8th, says
   Rory McGowan of Arup, a British engineering firm in charge of the
   project, the towers were permanently joined by seven steel beams. The
   timing, at 9.30am, was important. Had it been later, uneven expansion
   of the building's frame in daylight would have resulted in stresses
   being locked in.

   The building is supposed to be ready for partial use in time for the
   Olympic Games next August and completed in 2009. Construction, says
   the broadcaster, is proceeding smoothly "under the loving care" of the
   Communist Party.


   How prisoners pay scandalously high rates 

   TOP of the list of complaints of many of Britain's prisoners is not
   the snoring of their cellmates, nor the quality of the food, but the
   difficulty and expense of making telephone calls. Mobiles are
   forbidden (though many inmates possess them), and most prisoners have
   only two hours a day in which they may use the payphones. These are
   limited in number and often broken, and the queues tend to be long.
   The charges are high, too. The minimum rate for a call to any United
   Kingdom land-line number is 10p, which buys 55 seconds of chat, after
   which it is 1p for every 5.5 seconds. To call a mobile costs 19-65p
   per minute. These rates are less egregious than those charged by other
   providers to many hospital patients, who are similarly unable to shop
   around. But they are higher than in public call boxes and for
   prisoners, whose average wage is 8 a week, they are mountainous.

   Then inmates had better stay silent, is one response: those who commit
   crimes must expect to forfeit access to the conveniences of modern
   life. The counter-argument is, in the words of Charles Clarke, a
   recent home secretary, that an offender "is much less likely to
   reoffend if he feels part of a family and community, from which he
   receives support as well as owes obligations". As it is, 45% of
   prisoners lose contact with their families during their sentence.

   In some ways, visits would be better than calls. But such is the
   overcrowded state of British prisons that last year male inmates were,
   on average, held 50 miles (80km) from home and women 58 miles. For the
   10,700 or so prisoners imprisoned more than 100 miles from home,
   visits were even more difficult.

   Prison telephones in England, Wales and Northern Ireland are run by
   BT, which won the contract from the Prison Service in 1998. BT has
   unusual costs in that the prison phone system is small and must allow
   the monitoring of calls. It points out that it won the tender against
   competition, and that anyway the Prison Service sets the rates.

   Critics, however, say the charges could, and should, be renegotiated.
   Telecoms rates have generally fallen in the past ten years but in
   prisons are fixed until the contract ends in 2011. And prisoners have
   no choice but to use BT.

   Protests have so far been to no avail. With the backing of the prisons
   ombudsman, a prisoner has been trying to get the Prison Service to
   lower its charges, saying his rights to respect for family life,
   codified under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights,
   have been infringed. But in November a High Court judge ruled against
   him.

   Bad news for prisoners, certainly, and especially for the many
   illiterates among them (82% have the writing ability expected of an
   11-year-old) and for the 14% who are foreigners (calls abroad are even
   more expensive than domestic ones). But the innocent, too, are
   victims. As a report from several prison charities this week points
   out, 160,000 children each year have a parent who is sent to jail.
   That is more than the number of children whose parents get divorced.
   Nearly a third of these children suffer from mental-health problems.

   It's good to talk, as BT used to say. Too bad if you, or your dad,
   can't afford to.


                                                                       PA

                                     PA

   The Conservatives are doing well, but not well enough

   [3]David Cameron

   DAVID CAMERON, who marked his second anniversary as leader of the
   Conservative Party on December 6th, knows the wisdom of at least one
   of Westminster's ancient maxims. A week really is a long time in
   politics: at the start of his party's conference in October, he looked
   likely to lose the snap election that Gordon Brown, riding high as
   prime minister, was expected to call; by its end, he had regained a
   momentum that has yet to desert him.

   He must now hope that another grizzled saying is true: that
   oppositions don't win elections, governments lose them. Recent events
   have compromised the government's claims to competence (the taxman
   lost the personal data of millions of citizens) and probity (a
   party-funding scandal forced the resignation of Labour's general
   secretary). Labour's support has fallen to about 33% (see chart). Yet
   the Tories have not pulled away decisively: they are polling at around
   40%, which is short of both the 45% mark that Mr Cameron has made his
   party's target and the 60% that Labour scored under Tony Blair in
   1995. Labour then was more than 30 points ahead of the governing
   Tories; today the Tories are less than ten points ahead of Labour.

   Conservatives note that they face a stronger government than Sir John
   Major's. None of its recent mistakes has been as ruinous for voters as
   the recession of the early 1990s. Neither is it as exhausted of ideas:
   Sir John never produced anything as vaulting as the children's plan
   unveiled on December 11th.

   Yet the Tories must raise their game. Thanks to uneven constituency
   sizes, the Tories need more votes than Labour to win the same number
   of parliamentary seats; their current poll ratings do not suggest that
   they would gain a majority. And if Mr Brown's failure to call a snap
   election hurt him politically, it also raised the bar for Mr Cameron.
   A narrower Labour majority would have been a fine result this autumn;
   a Tory victory is expected in an election in 2009 or 2010. But why,
   given Labour's woes, are the Tories not out of sight?

   One reason may be a lack of high-calibre people. Tories insist they
   are a match for Labour in key positions. None of their top four--Mr
   Cameron, George Osborne, the shadow chancellor, William Hague, the
   shadow foreign secretary, and David Davis, the shadow home
   secretary--is outclassed by his Labour opposite number. But lower down
   is a problem. Mr Cameron is said to be disappointed at the number of
   cabinet-worthy MPs at his disposal.

   Another factor is the Tories' perceived fuzziness on policy. A row
   over selective grammar schools began a bad summer for the party. Talk
   of the voluntary sector playing a bigger role in delivering public
   services lacks flesh. And foreign-policy views seem less clearly
   defined than Labour's before 1997, when Mr Blair held ambitions to
   make Britain an unambiguously European nation.

   Yet much policy wonkery is going on behind the scenes. Commissions set
   up to investigate public services, social justice, competitiveness,
   the environment, the constitution and security have reported back,
   often in epic detail. Green papers have been produced on school reform
   and energy; more are scheduled. An implementation unit is being
   created to examine how policies can be put into practice in
   government. Only within Mr Brown's economic remit was such exhaustive
   work done when Labour was in opposition.

   Indeed, if Mr Cameron's first year at the Tory helm saw style
   privileged over substance, the party may now have lurched too far in
   the opposite direction. Energy expended on policy detail is energy not
   spent articulating an animating vision of how the country would be
   transformed by a Tory government. Even Mr Cameron's supporters concede
   that he is better at conveying competence and reasonableness than at
   rousing passion for change.

   The Tories also face a challenge from the Liberal Democrats, who
   announce their new leader on December 17th. Either Nick Clegg, their
   home-affairs spokesman, or Chris Huhne, who holds the environment
   brief, will make a pitch to those voters disillusioned with Labour but
   sceptical about whether the Tories have changed. Many such voters are
   outside the south-east, the Tories' natural home. Mr Cameron's appeal
   in marginal constituencies in the midlands and the north has yet to be
   tested, though Tories point hopefully to results in the local
   elections in May.

   Other hazards remain. One is Boris Johnson, the party's popular but
   disorganised candidate in London's mayoral election next May. Party
   staff are concerned that a lazy campaign ending in a heavy defeat by
   Ken Livingstone, the Labour incumbent, would reflect badly on Mr
   Cameron. Some believe a victory for Mr Johnson would be even worse, if
   he turned out to be a shambolic leader of Britain's capital.

   Another is the possibility of a right-wing revanche. Mr Cameron's
   modernising creed has not put down deep roots within his party: many
   MPs and activists only tolerated a move to the centre because it
   seemed a winning strategy. That the party's recent recovery began with
   a promise to lift millions of households out of the inheritance-tax
   net may embolden them to start asking for more of the same.

   It may be that the government's various troubles--perhaps including an
   economic downturn next year--will be enough to hand the Tories the
   next election. Mr Cameron would be unwise to count on it.


                                                             Steve OBrien

                                Steve OBrien

   Why an online petition has caused trouble for the government on two
   fronts

   IN POLITICS, as in life, good intentions are not enough. In pursuit of
   two perfectly decent ideas--the need to tackle traffic congestion by
   some form of road pricing and the desire to make itself appear more
   open to consultation--the government has created nothing but trouble
   for itself.

   The immediate cause is an "e-petition" on the 10 Downing Street
   [3]website that by midweek had attracted nearly 1.5m signatures. The
   petition demands that the government abandon proposals to establish a
   national vehicle-tracking system that would be used to tax motorists
   every time they drove their cars. Through exaggeration and distortion
   the petition has rather brilliantly united the motoring, anti-tax and
   civil-liberties lobbies.

   When the deadline for signing the petition is reached on February
   20th, it will be politely rejected--Tony Blair has said he will send
   an e-mail to every signatory--and the newspapers which helped drum up
   support for it will rant about the government's arrogant disdain for
   public opinion. But two good causes, doing something to unclog
   Britain's overcrowded roads and experimenting with new forms of
   participatory democracy, will both have been set back unless some
   lessons are learned.

   First, the government needs to acknowledge that its attempts to sell
   road pricing have been pretty woeful. Its first mistake was to attach
   too much significance to Ken Livingstone's introduction of congestion
   charging in part of central London. Having implemented the scheme in
   the teeth of local opposition and government scepticism, Mr
   Livingstone secured his re-election as London's mayor when traffic
   initially flowed better and bus services were improved with the money
   raised. Mr Blair, no mean Livingstone-hater in the past, was dewy-eyed
   with admiration.

   Unfortunately, on the eve of the charging zone's extension westward,
   doubts about how much it has achieved are growing. This week Transport
   for London, the mayor's own transport body, was forced to admit that
   congestion is only 8% lower than it was before the charge was
   introduced. TfL thinks the extension is likely to make things even
   worse because of residents' discounts within the expanded zone. The
   government also conveniently forgot that Londoners rely far less on
   their cars than people elsewhere in the country and those who use them
   regularly tend to be richer.

   Among the government's other mistakes was failing to counter the
   impression that it wanted to set up a national surveillance network to
   monitor every driver and that many people who depended on their cars
   would literally be taxed out of them. Nor has the disappearance into
   the Treasury maw of the revenues from this month's doubling of
   air-passenger duty helped. It only confirmed suspicions that the
   government would use any excuse to dig its hand deeper into the
   public's wallet.

   The attempt to portray itself as a "listening" government has been
   equally inept. Much of the Downing Street website is informative and
   serious. But online petitions of the kind the site has invited since
   last November are neither. Indeed, petitions are one of the worst
   possible ways of drawing the public into the political process. By
   their nature, they encourage single-issue campaigners and a crudely
   binary approach to complex issues which require the reconciliation of
   contradictory interests.

   The road-pricing petition tells us that many people want neither to
   pay more for driving nor to feel they are being spied on when they use
   their cars, and that lots of them are willing to spend one minute
   protesting about it. What the petition doesn't do is provide any clue
   as to how journey times should be speeded up to the benefit of both
   individuals and the economy.

   The problem is that although everyone seems to agree there is a
   "crisis of disengagement" from politics--as shown by low voter turnout
   and fading identification with political parties--convincing solutions
   are in short supply. The government is sponsoring "Digital Dialogues",
   an investigation by the independent Hansard Society into ways in which
   the internet can be used to consult voters and "internal stakeholders"
   over aspects of government policy. Last year, however, a report on
   declining political engagement, dubbed the Power inquiry, recognised
   that "popular cynicism towards public consultation is very strong",
   though it gamely argued that all public bodies should nonetheless
   consult the public in their decision-making.

   One possible answer is to cultivate more direct forms of
   participation. The Power inquiry teamed up with a London council to
   give local residents a direct role in setting the following year's
   budget. The "open-budget" assembly in Harrow attracted about 300
   participants to six hours of deliberation on a Sunday afternoon.
   Nearly everyone involved thought the event a success, but the kind of
   people who will give up part of their weekend to debating how much
   money should be spent on collecting rubbish are probably pretty
   engaged in the first place.

   Local will do for now

   Another recommendation by the Power inquiry, taken up this week by a
   rightish think-tank, the Centre for Policy Studies, is that ordinary
   Britons should have the same right to initiate legislation through
   referendums as citizens in 24 American states and many European
   countries, most famously Switzerland. David Cameron, the Tory leader,
   is said to be interested and the chancellor, Gordon Brown, who wants
   to show he is not the top-down micro-manager depicted by his enemies,
   could be too.

   Whether such alien notions can be transplanted to Britain is
   questionable. But what is most wrong with the British version of
   representative democracy is its extreme over-centralisation. What
   other country would even be thinking about a "national" road-pricing
   scheme? Never mind direct democracy: most Britons would probably be
   happy with just a little more democracy that was genuinely local.


   Why the government keeps on losing records

   FOR many years Britain's tiny band of civil libertarians have been
   trying to alert their countrymen to the danger of proliferating
   government databases, which allow bureaucrats to share citizens'
   information among themselves with the minimum of fuss. A string of
   recent blunders have made their case more powerfully than years of
   lobbying. The latest to emerge has been the loss earlier this year of
   3m driving-test records held at a data centre in Iowa.

   That unwelcome disclosure was made on December 17th, just after
   Alistair Darling, the chancellor of the exchequer, had published a
   preliminary report into a much bigger mistake. A month earlier, in a
   charged parliamentary session, a shaken Mr Darling revealed that the
   Treasury's tax agency, HMRC, had managed to lose two CDs containing
   the records of 25m child-benefit claimants in the post. The
   information included names, dates of birth and bank-account
   details--everything an identity thief needs--and is reckoned to be the
   world's second-biggest data blunder.

   Mr Darling portrayed the loss as an unfortunate lapse by a junior
   official that breached security guidelines. But in the weeks since the
   revelation that has become a harder line to sell. After the loss of
   the discs HMRC sent out a letter of apology to everyone affected. But
   in its haste the tax authority made another mistake: the letters, many
   of which will have missed their intended recipients, contained much
   more personal information than was necessary to apologise. Tax
   officials have admitted that data have disappeared from their offices
   on eight occasions since 2005. A separate internal review of HMRC,
   also published on December 17th, made what amounts to scathing
   criticisms of the agency's management, albeit couched in bland
   official-speak.

   Other government departments have had their embarrassments, too. A
   technical glitch allowed online visa applicants to see their fellow
   applicants' details; a similar error allowed job-seeking junior
   doctors to read their rivals' applications as well as their own. The
   catalogue of mishaps has spurred ministers to promise reforms,
   including compulsory encryption, simpler management at HMRC and
   tougher penalties for those who break the law in the most egregious
   ways.

   Tougher sanctions may help, but much of the battle will be cultural.
   Richard Thomas, the information commissioner, told a parliamentary
   committee earlier in December that the weight of bad publicity was at
   last having an effect, and that data rules were starting to be
   followed more scrupulously. Not everyone agrees. "Not many people, and
   not many organisations, take data protection fabulously seriously,"
   says James Mitchell, a data-protection lawyer. Part of the reason, he
   says, is weak penalties under British laws.

   Others see a more fundamental problem. The Foundation for Information
   Policy Research points out that data losses are an inevitable
   consequence of the government's determination to build massive
   databases to keep tabs on its citizens. And despite the embarrassments
   of the past few weeks, it shows no sign of abandoning the biggest
   project of all: its plan to introduce identity cards for everyone.




   Gordon Brown struggles to keep his footing as another crisis erupts

   [3]Gordon Brown

   TONY BLAIR, after years as Britain's prime minister, remarked recently
   that religion and politics don't mix: a leader who invokes his faith
   is, he lamented, considered a "nutter". For his successor, Gordon
   Brown, reconciling politics and God must seem a breeze compared with
   reconciling politics and money. Less than two months after the police
   dropped investigations into whether parties had offered peerages in
   exchange for loans, another money scandal is gripping Westminster.

   The latest is a labyrinthine affair, and potentially devastating for
   Mr Brown. Since 2003 David Abrahams, a property developer from the
   north-east, has donated a total of over 650,000 ($1.3m) to the Labour
   Party through intermediaries including two employees, the wife of
   another and his solicitor. He claims to have done this to protect his
   privacy but, under the tighter rules introduced by this government,
   making donations in someone else's name is unlawful. On November 26th
   Peter Watt, the general secretary of the Labour Party, admitted that
   he knew about the arrangement, and resigned. Mr Brown, who claims not
   to have known, has promised to return the money.

   Unfortunately for Labour, the mess does not stop there. On November
   27th it emerged that Jon Mendelsohn, the party's chief fundraiser and
   recruited in September by Mr Brown himself, knew of Mr Abrahams's
   indirect donations too, although he was unhappy about them.

   Questions have also arisen about contributions during the contest for
   Labour's deputy leadership last summer. Janet Kidd, Mr Abrahams's
   secretary, gave 5,000 to Hilary Benn, one of the candidates, who
   returned it after being tipped off that Mr Abrahams was the real
   source of the money. Mr Benn then took the same sum from Mr Abrahams
   directly. But Harriet Harman, the winning candidate, did accept a
   5,000 donation from Ms Kidd, apparently without realising its true
   provenance. The spectacle of a donor giving money to different
   candidates under different names is odd enough; many wonder how Ms
   Harman could not have known what Mr Benn knew. The question is acute
   as she is married to Labour's treasurer, Jack Dromey, who says that he
   too was out of the loop. She is returning the money but Mr Brown's
   support for her has so far been nuanced.

   Others are being dragged in too. In 2006 the Highways Agency lifted
   its block on a planning application for a new commercial centre in the
   north-east to be built by associates of Mr Abrahams. The government
   denies that ministers played any role in the decision, but promises to
   investigate the matter.

   Party-finance rows are not confined to the Labour Party: the
   Conservatives received more money in undeclared loans before the last
   general election than Labour did, and the Liberal Democrats took money
   from a convicted perjurer. Indeed, it is due in part to Labour's
   efforts to make the system more transparent that chicanery is now
   evident. But whatever the context, a law has been broken. The
   Electoral Commission is investigating further and has consulted the
   Crown Prosecution Service. A police investigation may follow.

   The funding fiasco has hit a prime minister who was already short of
   political capital. Mr Brown's honeymoon with the electorate was at its
   dreamiest during the Labour Party conference in September. Since then
   he has endured the botched handling of a possible snap election, the
   messy rescue of Northern Rock, a mortgage lender, and the loss by the
   customs and revenue office of 25m people's personal data. His
   reputation for competence has suffered horribly; he cannot now afford
   to lose his reputation for probity.

   A Major legacy

   Mr Brown is often likened to William Gladstone for his intellect and
   compares himself to Margaret Thatcher as a conviction politician. The
   analogy that commentators now draw with Sir John Major, the most
   recent Tory prime minister, will hurt. Mr Brown's premiership is not
   yet doomed, as Sir John's was, to be a fire-fighting postscript to
   that of a more illustrious predecessor. Sir John suffered a steady
   trickle of bad news over several years; Mr Brown has had a
   concentrated deluge of disasters, and the weather may improve as
   suddenly as it worsened. Unlike Sir John, he leads a stable government
   with a comfortable majority in Parliament. And whereas Sir John's
   opposition turned his woes into unassailable poll leads, the Tories
   have not yet definitively raced over the horizon.

   Yet in other ways Mr Brown's fate may be worse than Sir John's. The
   latter at least won an election (and by a good margin in the popular
   vote, though not in parliamentary seats). Ever fewer pundits believe
   Mr Brown will do the same. And Sir John left a tangible legacy. The
   economic expansion that continues to this day began under him, as did
   the fall in crime. He introduced market reforms into the public
   sector, and even his policy towards the European Union (remaining
   outside the euro but sufficiently involved to push for eastward
   expansion) has been broadly vindicated.

   By contrast, it is hard to know how Britain will be different after Mr
   Brown's time in office, though this is partly because he has already
   served a decade as chancellor of the exchequer. He harbours a few big
   ideas, such as extending the school-leaving age to 18, but seems
   disappointingly keen on diluting Mr Blair's promising public-service
   reforms. A sense of direction enables governments to stay on their
   feet when times are tough. Mr Brown must acquire one if his
   premiership is to recover.


   Worries over biofuels could work to Britain's advantage

   SIR RICHARD BRANSON, the bearded billionaire who founded Virgin
   Atlantic, is fond of surprises. Next month his airline plans to
   test-fly an aircraft that is partly powered by biofuels, something
   most experts thought was years away. From April Sir Richard's
   countrymen will begin filling their cars with a blend of petrol and
   biofuel, as part of the government's plan to ensure that 5% of
   Britain's transport runs on fuel made from plants by 2010.

   Transport accounts for around 20% of Britain's planet-warming carbon
   emissions. In theory biofuels produce low net emissions of carbon
   dioxide, since burning them merely recycles atmospheric carbon
   absorbed by the plant as it was growing. Others like them for
   different reasons. Farmers hope that growing crops to put in petrol
   tanks will be more profitable than growing them to put on dinner
   tables, and the prospect of domestic production appeals to politicians
   who are worried about energy security.

   Yet even as their star has risen at Westminster, biofuels have been
   raising doubts among greens. Friends of the Earth and Greenpeace, two
   environmental-lobbying groups, have given warning that biofuels may
   not be as eco-friendly as they seem. On January 14th a more august
   body took a similar line. The Royal Society, Britain's national
   science academy, published a report that analysed the bewildering
   range of biofuels on the market. It concluded that, thanks to carbon
   emissions from fertilisers and processing, some biofuels may cause
   more climate change than petrol. That raises the risk of a spectacular
   official own-goal: if targets encourage people to use the wrong sort
   of fuel, transport may get dirtier, not cleaner. The Royal Society
   wants ministers to specify targets not for biofuel consumption but for
   greenhouse-gas reduction. The government says it may do that after
   2010.

   Hopes that biofuels could boost farmers' income and improve energy
   security seem even more ephemeral. Dank, cloudy and small, Britain is
   ill-suited to mass production of the fast-growing crops favoured by
   the biofuel industry. For crops to provide even 5% of the fuel used in
   transport would require using huge swathes of arable land (see chart).
   "As far as actually growing things is concerned, I don't think it'll
   ever be big in Britain," says Lord Oxburgh, the head of D1 Oils, a
   biofuels firm.

   Even if Britain can't farm its way to green transport, some
   businessmen hope to turn a profit on biofuels by drawing on more
   reliable British skills. The Royal Society argues for a strict
   worldwide certification system, similar to that used for eco-friendly
   wood, to let consumers know just how green a particular biofuel is.
   Developing such a system would require exhaustive analysis of every
   step of a firm's supply chain. That's just the sort of thing that the
   City's legions of auditors and accountants would be good at--if they
   can get countries such as America and Brazil, both fiercely protective
   of their indigenous biofuels industries, to agree.


   Trade is booming--and busting up families

   THE discreet sign and dimly-lit staircase are not promising; nor is
   the silence that greets your correspondent when he interrupts a dozen
   Somali men to ask if this is the place to buy qat. But around the
   back, along a terrace and up another flight of stairs, sits a happy
   circle of youths, surrounded by discarded plant stems and beaming
   deliriously.

   This is a mafresh, where people come to chew the leaves of Catha
   edulis, a celebrated east African shrub with narcotic properties
   similar to amphetamine. The leaves, known as qat, contain the
   stimulants cathinone and cathine, rendering them illegal in America,
   Canada and most of Europe.

   Not so in Britain, which treats the plant as a harmless vegetable and
   allows its unrestricted import, export and sale. This is good news for
   the country's Somali, Yemeni and Ethiopian population, all regular
   chompers (a third of all Somali adults indulge). Demand from these
   communities has created a supply chain bringing bundles of stems from
   Africa to Britain, wrapped in banana leaves to keep them fresh. Their
   potency declines from the moment of harvest, so suppliers pull out all
   the stops to get their product into Britain's mafreshi within 24
   hours.

   The scale of the operation is breathtaking. A Home Office report in
   2005 found that up to seven tonnes of qat is imported into Britain
   every day, mainly from Kenya. A 150-gram portion--a single dose--can
   be bought for 3, which suggests that the British market is worth some
   51m a year for 17m hits.

   Given that the target community numbers fewer than 200,000 (including
   a lot of children), this is a suspiciously large amount. The
   government reckons much of the stock is for export to markets where it
   is illegal--especially America, where a 3 British bundle can fetch
   ten times that much. Many would-be smugglers are intercepted there at
   customs, but Britain's soft line means they face no punishment when
   sent home.

   Somali women in Britain have long backed a ban, sick of seeing their
   husbands buzz all night and snooze all day. A survey by Nacro, a
   crime-reduction charity, found 57% of Somali women thought qat chewers
   made bad fathers. "My brother does not hold on to jobs because he is
   up all night chewing," was one typical response. In the same survey,
   two-thirds of users admitted they had trouble sleeping and half felt
   tired or depressed the morning after a session.

   Despite this, the government last year approved a report recommending
   that the drug remain legal. Prohibition would raise its price, it was
   argued, causing organised criminals to move in and wrench the market
   from local businesses. In any case, the report noted reassuringly, the
   scourge was limited to Somalis and Yemenis, and there was "no evidence
   of qat use in the general population". No need to worry then.


   Britain's penal system is looking less European and more American


   IN THE sunny early days of Gordon Brown's premiership, it seemed for a
   while that a radical change in penal policy was on the horizon. "We
   cannot carry on building prisons indefinitely and we need to look at
   new approaches," Lord Falconer, then the justice minister, had said in
   May. Two months later his successor, Jack Straw, called for a
   "national conversation" about the use of custody. The prison system,
   one of the few public services not yet thoroughly overhauled by
   Labour, looked like a place for Mr Brown to leave his mark.

   That now seems unlikely. On December 5th Mr Straw announced plans to
   build yet more prisons, as recommended in a report that day by Lord
   Carter, a favourite government problem-solver (and once the best man
   at Mr Straw's wedding). With their 81,000 jail places full up, England
   and Wales already lock away more of their population than any western
   European country bar Luxembourg. At a cost of 2.7 billion, Mr Straw
   now plans to add 15,000 more places by 2014.

   No big new jails will be ready until 2010, so until then the
   government will have to rely on quick fixes such as converting an old
   army base and buying a prison ship (embarrassingly, it sold one only
   last year). Once ready, the "Titans", as the big new jails have been
   christened, will hold 2,500 inmates each, making them twice the size
   of Britain's largest existing prisons. A shame, argues Gavin Lockhart
   of Policy Exchange, a think-tank: more small, local jails would have
   kept convicts near their families, helping their rehabilitation.
   Economies of scale seem to have won the day.

   Even the Titans will only just keep pace with the demand for places
   (see chart). If official estimates are right, by 2014 the number of
   people locked up will have doubled in 20 years. To outsiders this
   suggests a country riddled with crime. Yet crime has broadly been
   falling. One of Labour's proudest boasts is that crime has dipped by a
   third since it came to power in 1997 (critics counter that serious
   offences have become more common).

   Prisoner numbers have risen partly because the police are bringing
   more offenders to justice. But the big increase is due to changes in
   sentencing: many petty criminals who once would have been fined are
   now jailed, and serious offenders' sentences are 20% longer than they
   were in 1995. New crime laws have increased the penalties for the
   worst offences, causing sentence inflation across the board.

   Putting a lid on the prison population will mean restraining
   sentences. Lord Carter suggested a way of doing this, too: an
   independent commission that would set sentencing guidelines according
   to prison capacity. At the moment, guidelines are determined by a
   hotch-potch of statute and precedent; the government simply has to
   build however many prisons are required as a result. Under the Carter
   plan, the boot would be on the other foot: sentencing would have to
   take into account the limitations on capacity. So ramping up jail
   terms for violent criminals might only be possible if more shoplifters
   were sentenced to community service, for example.

   Setting sentences according to capacity, rather than vice-versa, could
   be hard to sell to voters, who reflexively believe that crime is
   getting worse and that longer sentences are the answer. The government
   has set up a "working party" to look into the proposal, which may
   spell doom. That would be a wasted chance, says Rob Allen of King's
   College, London. Factoring in the consequences of sentencing is
   sensible as well as humane: "We are making an astonishing investment
   in something of limited social benefit. Prison is an expensive
   resource that ought to be used sparingly."

   Without radical changes, expect many more Titans. As Lord Carter
   notes, the pressure on prison numbers is unlikely to abate. Mr Allen
   is gloomy: "This could be a watershed. We seem to be moving closer
   towards an American model." That is some way off: America still locks
   up five times more of its citizens than Britain does. But the gap is
   narrowing. Since 1995 America's prison population has increased by
   42%, while Britain's has jumped by 60%. In Europe, where numbers were
   already more restrained, Germany's inmates swelled by just 16%, and
   France's by 1%.


                                                            Illustrations

                               Illustrations

   Transport: Would you pay $85,000 for a car you could take into the
   ocean?

   IS IT an aquatic car or a terrestrial boat? The Aquada, a three-seater
   vehicle with wheels that fold up, James Bond-style, is due to go into
   production in 2008 and will sell for around $85,000, according to its
   maker, Gibbs Technologies. In 2004 an early prototype, piloted by
   Richard Branson, a British entrepreneur, became the fastest amphibious
   vehicle ever to cross the English Channel. Powered by a V-6 engine,
   the Aquada is capable of 175kph (110mph) on land and 50kph on water.
   The company's founder and president, Alan Gibbs, wanted to be able to
   drive onto the beach in front of his home in New Zealand, which is
   often inaccessible because of high tides. But Gibbs Technologies'
   chief executive, Neil Jenkins, reckons the Aquada will appeal to a
   broad range of buyers, including urbanites in London or New York, who
   could use the amphibious craft to circumvent traffic-clogged roads.The
   Aquada will be built in America, and several states are vying to
   attract the plant. "Personally, I'd like to do it in Detroit," says Mr
   Gibbs. He hopes to employ 1,500 workers and produce 100,000 vehicles
   within five years. The Aquada certainly has novelty value. But its
   success depends on there being enough paying customers who decide that
   it floats their boat.


   Teachers want more; everyone else wants what they are having


   AFTER a decade of generous pay rises, teachers found the three-year
   pay deal proposed on January 15th by Ed Balls, the schools secretary,
   distinctly underwhelming. On offer is 2.45% extra in 2008-09 and 2.3%
   in each of the following two years. This is far short of the 4%
   teaching unions had said they needed to keep pace with retail-price
   inflation--"in effect a pay cut", growled Steve Sinnott, who leads the
   National Union of Teachers. His executive will be meeting to discuss
   the offer next week and he expects a "robust response".

   The teaching unions' response may be robust; their actions are likely
   to be less so. The deal was better than teachers feared it might be.
   Gordon Brown had called for pay restraint; a "difficult year" for the
   public purse, said the chancellor, Alistair Darling. He urged
   public-sector pay deals of 2%, the government's target for
   consumer-price inflation, its preferred measure.

   And teachers are doing well: their median pay has risen by almost a
   fifth in real terms over the past decade; most can retire on a full,
   final-salary pension at 60; and holidays are longer than in almost any
   other job. Another fact the unions do not tend to point out when
   making comparisons with the private sector, or sweeping statements
   about pay cuts, is that in any given year half of all teachers get
   much more than the headline deal. This is because they move up the
   teachers' pay scale, which boosts their pay packet by another 1,000
   or so. And then there are the sweeteners that have proliferated in
   recent years: retention allowances; golden hellos in shortage
   subjects; performance-related bonuses; extra payments for pastoral
   duties or for working in the big smoke.

   Although teachers may (just about) have been bought off, their pay
   offer could backfire on the government by causing anger in other parts
   of the public sector, where disputes over last year's pay settlements
   are turning into running battles. The bodies reviewing pay for police,
   prison officers and nurses all recommended rises of 2.5% in 2007.
   Unaffordable, said Mr Brown, and phased in the awards, with a mere
   1.5% added to salaries for the first six months and an additional 1%
   afterwards, bringing their value down to 1.9% overall.

   Nurses grumbled, and secured some concessions--only in England was the
   award not eventually paid in full--but concern about patients' welfare
   meant that their hands were tied. Prison officers were less quiescent.
   They pulled out of a voluntary no-strike agreement in protest, and at
   some prisons held wildcat strikes--the first in their association's
   68-year history. The justice secretary, Jack Straw, has threatened to
   make it illegal for prison officers to strike unless the agreement is
   reinstated.

   Angriest of all are the police. Historically, the ban on police
   strikes has been rewarded by the government's willingness to honour
   the recommendations of the body that reviews their pay. The Police
   Federation plans a protest rally in Westminster on January 23rd and a
   ballot of members on whether they want the right to strike. "I have no
   doubt the teachers' ability to take strike action influenced the
   government's decision to pay in full the recommendation of their
   pay-review body," says Jan Berry, the chairman of the federation. More
   than 200 MPs, mostly Labour backbenchers, have signed a House of
   Commons motion calling for the government to give police officers the
   2.5% increase in full.

   On January 16th the government published the recommendations of yet
   another pay review--this time the one that looks at MPs' salaries. The
   country's elected representatives are worth 2.56% more than last year,
   it said. Mr Brown demurs. He wants his right honourable friends to set
   an example to all public servants and settle for a more modest 1.9%,
   paid in two stages. But he cannot force them to do so: MPs have a free
   vote on their own pay (although not for much longer, as the government
   has asked a senior civil servant to recommend a less inflammatory
   alternative).

   That vote is due to be held on January 24th. Its result--far more than
   a fraction of a percentage point for teachers or police officers--will
   set the tone for pay negotiations right across the public sector.


   Voters like the idea of tougher borders, but the cost is high and the
   benefits are limited

   ILLEGAL migrants risk their lives to better themselves. Europeans are
   more aware of Africans drowning in the Mediterranean in the summer
   holiday season, but boats are wrecked all year round. In mid-December
   51 migrants drowned off the Greek island of Samos, one of the worst
   such incidents in recent memory. Mexicans dying in Arizona's desert
   rarely make headlines any more. And not a lot is heard about the
   600,000 people a year, perhaps more, who the UN says are trafficked
   and often forced into prostitution. Bonded labour, too, is dismally
   common.

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

                          India's way with a fence

   Europe and America are both making big efforts to control their
   southern borders. The EU's system, run by its member countries, is
   called Frontex. In 2006 most sea-borne African migrants washed up on
   the Canaries; in 2007 it was the turn of the central Mediterranean,
   especially Malta and Italy. In the coming year watch Greece and
   Cyprus, where a trickle of boat people from Egypt and Turkey may turn
   into a flood. With some 100 patrol craft, plus spotter planes,
   land-based radar and other technology, Frontex does seem to be making
   it more difficult to get in.

   A trip with a night patrol on a Greek coastguard vessel from the
   island of Samos shows how. The boat, with tinted and bullet-proofed
   windows, accelerates above 30 knots as a searchlight illuminates a
   350-metre radius and a radar scans the nearby Turkish coast. Six
   guards aboard, some brandishing M4 rifles, peer into the darkness.
   Fishing and tourist craft appear in the gloom. Spotting a raftload of
   immigrants would be easy, though those on small rubber dinghies or
   swimming with snorkels and flippers would be harder to find. The boat
   is kept busy. In the 24 hours before this patrol several dozen illegal
   migrants were plucked from the sea and the rocky shore and taken to a
   detention centre in Samos. Greece has 30 such boats, plus four
   aeroplanes for air-sea surveillance.

   Even the bright and well-educated risk misery. An Ethiopian law
   student in Greece tells of his wretched trip to Europe: he bribed
   Ethiopian border officials, hid in a truck carrying coffee in Sudan,
   endured seven days in the Sahara, spent months in a grim camp in
   Libya, suffered a terrifying voyage across the Mediterranean, hitched
   a lift in a frozen-meat lorry in Turkey, scavenged in a forest for
   days and feared he would drown in a fishing boat that carried him into
   the EU. He paid several thousand dollars for the journey and ended up
   locked in a cramped and stinking warehouse on the island of Samos,
   crammed with asylum-seekers. Dejected, he says he wants to go home.

   America's frontier with Mexico has even more gear, gadgets and
   manpower on display. Unmanned Predator Bee drones float at 12,000
   feet, helping to guide officers in bulletproof helicopters, in jeeps,
   on horseback, on mountain bikes and on all-terrain buggies towards any
   would-be migrants. Seismic sensors catch footfalls, magnetic ones
   notice cars, infra-red beams are useful for tunnels. Some 18,000
   officers man the border crossings and a further 15,000 (due to rise to
   18,000 by the end of 2008) patrol in-between them.

   Perhaps the best way to look at the border is from the air. As an
   A-star helicopter lurches into the late-morning haze above San Ysidro,
   southern California, it becomes obvious that crossing from Tijuana on
   the Mexican side is no longer easy. Running a dozen miles inland from
   the Pacific ocean is a wide double fence, one to block cars, the other
   to stop pedestrians. Watchtowers and surveillance cameras, tall wire
   mesh and lots of border guards line the frontier. Occasionally
   migrants still scamper over the fence with improvised ladders. From
   the air a series of concrete paths becomes apparent, running
   crossways. These are tunnels, regularly dug from the southern side,
   regularly filled in again by the border patrol. Some have stretched
   for half a mile, complete with lighting, ventilation and a track for
   rolling carts.

   After 12 miles the fence becomes a single line, and two miles after
   that it stops. From here on the hills rise, providing a natural
   barrier. Now the "virtual fence" takes over--drones, helicopters,
   sensors. By the end of 2008 some 670 miles of fencing will be erected
   along the 1,969-mile border. In many places the fence is made of
   Vietnam-era concrete slabs designed for runways and turned on their
   sides.

   Europe and America are not alone in their taste for well-policed
   borders. South Africa, deluged by migrants from north of the Limpopo
   river, is trying to enforce its own. In 2007 it reportedly deported an
   average of 4,000 people a week. India is finishing an iron barrier 2.5
   metres high along the 4,100km (2,500 mile) boundary with Bangladesh,
   at a cost of more than $1 billion, to mark a fuzzy frontier and keep
   out poor Bangladeshis.

   Are the barriers doing any good? The answer depends on your
   objectives. With Frontex in Europe, for example, the craft, for all
   their guns and scary looks, sometimes have to act as rescue boats. It
   is said that some migrants, once they have arrived in EU waters, phone
   ahead to get someone to collect them, confident that they will not be
   turned away. To make sure, they sometimes slash their dinghy with a
   knife as the patrol boat arrives.

   In America, look down from the helicopter at the spot where the fence
   stops. Here the paths begin: thousands of jagged tracks in the
   scrubland, stretching north to south, worn into the rust-coloured
   earth by millions of human footsteps. The migrants have a simple way
   of dealing with the technology: they walk around the fence. Only some
   are then stopped.

   Even those detained at the border have every reason to expect to make
   it across eventually. On the day your correspondent visited, two men
   had been chased, tackled, dragged through a bush and handcuffed in the
   back of a border patrol car. They were taken to a processing centre in
   the nearby town of Nogales, their fingerprints scanned and checked
   against a database of criminals. Those not on a wanted list are
   usually deported within 24 hours. But many will turn round and try
   again.

   In Europe an even larger proportion of those stopped at the borders
   end up staying. Many will attempt to claim asylum, saying they are
   escaping from a war. Those who are not able to convince officials that
   they are refugees may still be able to stay if the EU lacks a
   deportation agreement with their home country. If deportation is
   impossible, they are released after a time and melt away.

   Don't even think about it

   No doubt the borders are becoming harder to cross. Franco Frattini,
   Europe's commissioner for justice and home affairs, is delighted with
   Frontex. The first eight months of 2007 showed 72% fewer migrants
   crossing to the Canaries and 41% fewer in the central Mediterranean
   than the year before. "It shows it is possible to cut because of the
   impact of deterrence," he says. America's fence-builders are also
   pleased. Official figures released in November showed a one-fifth
   decline in cross-border apprehensions, from just over 1m in fiscal
   2006 to 858,000 in fiscal 2007, the lowest number in five years.

   The high prices charged by people-smugglers reflect the growing
   difficulty, as well as the relative risk and discomfort of the journey
   (see table 3). The cheapest way to reach San Diego is to curl up in
   the boot of a willing driver's car and hope that sniffer dogs will not
   find you, or to use a fake or stolen passport. Tunnels and guided
   hikes are more pricey. Ten years ago a trip from Mexico to Phoenix,
   Arizona, cost $250-500, but now it will be more like $3,000. If you
   are an "OTM" (Other Than Mexican, in the language of the guards),
   rates are higher.

   Fences are popular with those who live on the right side of them. The
   first barriers in San Ysidro went up in the early 1990s as part of
   "Operation Gatekeeper", helping to end chaos and violence. Huge
   numbers of illegal migrants used to gather on the border, then run
   across, thousands at a time, overwhelming border guards. Today
   shopping malls, warehouses and housing fill an area that was once
   scrubland too dangerous for the police to patrol. Land and property
   prices have soared. But although some illegal migrants are deterred by
   fences, the recent drop in apprehensions in America may have as much
   to do with the housing-market slump, which means fewer are drawn north
   in the first place.

   Other illegal migrants are diverted to new and more dangerous routes.
   Thus African boat people endure longer trips in wilder seas. More
   Mexicans strike out over those natural barriers. With inadequate
   water, high-caffeine drinks, garlic to ward off rattlesnakes and a
   goat's foot for luck, the ill-prepared are dying in alarming numbers
   in Arizona's desert. Since 2000, in the sector around Tucson alone,
   some 1,137 bodies have been found. There are probably many more still
   out there.

   Nor does it seem much to celebrate that job-seekers are handing more
   of their savings to criminals, such as the Arellano Felix cartel that
   controls much of the Mexican side of the California border. Some fund
   their crossings by becoming criminals themselves, either as guides for
   other migrants or as drug mules. They are also carrying knives and
   guns more often.

   The bigger concern is that fences might in fact push up the total
   number of illegal migrants inside any given rich country. After all,
   the more costly and dangerous it is to cross, the less people will
   feel like leaving. Migrants quite often return home for a while--but
   only if they know it will be relatively easy to get back in. The
   tougher the border, the more incentive migrants have to stay and
   perhaps to get their families to join them instead.

   One migration expert in Washington, DC, says that higher walls will
   keep people in as well as out: "The more that is spent on the border,
   the more illegal migrants stay here. Our politicians are not stupid.
   They know that walls do not stop people. It is a loser's game." That
   argument is well understood in Europe, too. One official dealing with
   immigration policy in Brussels says: "It is playing King Canute to say
   that you can stop illegal migration. It has never worked. It is no
   easier to stop than prostitution." But, on both sides of the Atlantic,
   tough borders are popular with voters, so they are here to stay.

   They may become more effective if combined with other high-tech
   enforcement. The EU has a pan-continental fingerprint database for
   asylum-seekers called Eurodac which lets officials track those who
   have been detained. Britain is introducing identity cards for
   foreigners, including biometric information, and in France Mr Sarkozy
   will now go ahead with DNA testing of supposed blood relatives. In
   America every detained illegal immigrant has his fingerprints recorded
   through a system called IAFIS, which is linked to the FBI and other
   crime databases.

   American employers are also facing tougher checks on whether they use
   undocumented labour. An electronic database, E-verify, lets registered
   employers check instantly whether workers are authorised to be in the
   country. And more employers who break the law are facing arrests and
   fines: 863 arrests were made in 2007, against only 25 five years
   earlier.


   Clean technology: Architects believe that biologically inspired
   designs can help to reduce the environmental impact of buildings

        Ideas worth stealing: Grimshaw's proposed indoor rainforest

   ARCHITECTS have long taken inspiration from nature. In ancient Egypt
   columns were modelled on palm trees and lotus plants, and building
   designers have borrowed the shapes and proportions of natural forms
   ever since as they strived to achieve aesthetic perfection.

   Some architects now believe that such biomimicry has more to offer
   than simply making buildings look good. They are copying functional
   systems found in nature to provide cooling, generate energy and even
   to desalinate water. And they insist that doing these things using
   biomimetic designs is not just a gimmick, but makes financial sense.
   "It's often the case that green technology is considered to be
   commercially unattractive," says Michael Pawlyn, an architect at
   Grimshaw, the firm behind the Eden Project, a highly acclaimed biome
   structure in England. That perception, he says, is wrong--and he has
   the designs to prove it.

   So far, the use of biomimetic features in buildings has been driven as
   much by aesthetics as by function, and has been limited to relatively
   simple, passive systems. The Arab World Institute in Paris, for
   example, has an array of mechanical, eye-like irises on its
   south-facing faade. These open and close to control the amount of
   light entering the building, thereby regulating the internal
   temperature.

   Similarly there are now several buildings that have ventilation
   systems based on those found in termite mounds. The Eastgate Centre, a
   shopping centre and office block in Harare, Zimbabwe, has a mechanical
   cooling system made up of vents and flues that help hot air out of the
   structure. "It's the same principle as the chimney effect, but a bit
   more controlled," says Professor George Jeronimidis, director of the
   Centre for Biomimetics at the University of Reading. As hot air rises
   and flows out through vents at the top of the building, cooler air is
   drawn in at ground level.

   Dr Jeronimidis is now taking this concept further by using adaptive
   materials that flex in response to the level of moisture in the
   air--an idea borrowed from the way pine-cones open and close. Using a
   cellulose-like fibre composite, he has created a vent that changes
   from one curved shape to another, depending on the relative levels of
   moisture inside and outside a building. When warm, moist air builds up
   inside the building, the vent opens to allow it to escape. But when
   the air inside is dry, the vent stays shut and moist air from outdoors
   is kept out. "In principle it can be made to respond naturally,
   without any additional power," says Dr Jeronimidis.

   Intelligent designs

   Architects have become more interested in this sort of thing in recent
   years, he says, as greater attention is paid to the energy consumption
   and sustainability of buildings. Biology offers solutions to a range
   of problems. "Nature has had the benefit of a pretty long R&D period,"
   says Mr Pawlyn, who hopes to take the exploitation of natural designs
   to a completely new level. His firm has borrowed a trick used by
   fog-basking beetles and in the nostrils of camels for a novel
   desalination plant.

   When Grimshaw was given the brief to regenerate the Santa Catalina
   Isthmus, a narrow stretch of land on the coast of Las Palmas in Grand
   Canaria, the firm came up with the concept of a 3km (1.9 mile)
   promenade with a theatre and botanic garden as its focus. But rather
   than creating yet another drain on local resources the architects
   wanted the structure to be cooled and irrigated by natural means. "We
   decided to put forward a scheme that showed how the island could move
   towards self-sufficiency in water and energy, without relying on
   fossil fuels," says Mr Pawlyn.

     Ideas worth stealing: a rendering of the proposed Las Palmas Water
                  Theatre (left); the Eden Project (right)

   This meant finding a way to turn seawater into clean drinking water
   without expending too much energy. Fog-basking beetles, which are
   found in Namibia, have an ingeniously simple way of doing this. They
   hide underground during the day so that when they come out at night,
   their dark backs are relatively cool compared with the ambient night
   air. As moisture-laden breezes roll in from the Atlantic, the water in
   the air condenses on the beetles' backs (just as a cold bottle of beer
   left on a table causes water in the air to condense on its surface).
   The beetles simply have to tilt their bodies to make the water trickle
   into their mouths. A similar trick is also used by camels to prevent
   them losing moisture as they exhale. Moisture secreted through the
   nostrils evaporates as the camel breathes in, cooling the nostrils in
   the process. When the camel breathes out, moisture within the air then
   condenses on the nostrils.

   Inspired by this, Mr Pawlyn and his colleagues have designed their
   theatre around the same principles. A series of tall, vertical
   evaporation "gills" are positioned so that they face towards the sea
   and the incoming coastal breeze. Warm seawater, taken from close to
   the surface, is pumped so that it trickles down these units. As the
   breeze blows through the gills some of the seawater evaporates,
   leaving salt behind. The clean, moist air then continues its journey
   until it encounters a series of vertical condensing pipes. These are
   kept cold by pumping deep-sea water, from 1,000 metres below the
   surface, through them. As the moist, warm air hits the pipes the water
   condenses and trickles down to be collected.

   "You get a very powerful desalination effect," says Mr Pawlyn. This
   system is able to supply enough water for the 70,000-square-metre
   complex. A traditional flash-distillation desalination plant consumes
   between five and 12 kilowatt hours (kWh) of energy per cubic metre of
   water. The biomimetic approach, however, requires just 1.6 kWh per
   cubic metre. And since the water pumps will be mostly powered by a
   wind turbine, driven by the same prevailing winds that provide the
   plant's airflow, the overall energy consumption of the site is reduced
   even further. In the process, the same system can also help to cool
   neighbouring buildings, says Mr Pawlyn.

   Build me a rainforest

   Although it is unclear whether this innovative project will go ahead,
   the principles have already been tested by Charlie Paton, an engineer
   who collaborated in the scheme. His organisation, Seawater Greenhouse,
   has built pilot greenhouses that show this idea really works. The
   catch is that it will only work in certain climates, says Mr Pawlyn.
   "If you have a very dry and hot environment, the water readily
   evaporates."

   Nonetheless, Mr Pawlyn and his colleagues believe that biomimetic
   principles can be taken even further, to generate new income as well
   as reduce running costs and resource use. Natural ecosystems are
   restorative, notes Mr Pawlyn. "They operate in a closed loop made up
   of quite complex webs of different organisms," he says. "Man-made
   structures tend not to do that." Instead, man-made systems tend to be
   linear, consuming raw materials at one end and producing waste at the
   other. The result is a gradual depletion of natural resources.

   In an effort to reproduce a closed-loop system, Grimshaw has developed
   a design for an indoor tropical rainforest. This botanical garden is
   designed to sit on an existing landfill site and be a completely
   carbon-neutral structure. For most of the year, heat to maintain the
   hothouse will be provided by solar heating through a glazed roof.
   During the colder months additional heating will come from landfill
   biomass. The building is designed to be flanked by a number of large
   vertical vessels into which biodegradable waste, originally intended
   for the landfill, will be tossed. As the waste breaks down in these
   large composting units, it reaches temperatures of up to 75C, and
   this heats the indoor garden.

   This building will not only be carbon-neutral but will also generate
   income, by providing the service of waste disposal. Some countries
   impose landfill taxes of as much as 20 ($40) per tonne of waste. The
   designers reckon that their proposed building could generate as much
   as 7m ($14m) a year by acting as a substitute for a landfill site.
   And in the true spirit of restorative closed-loops, the resulting
   compost can be sold for agricultural use.

   "Buildings should be able to pay for themselves," says Professor
   Julian Vincent, director of the Centre for Biomimetics at the
   University of Bath in England. At the moment, he says, most
   biologically inspired systems used in architecture are simply
   morphological. "This seems to me to lose the point of biomimetics," he
   says. There is huge potential, but architects are only just beginning
   to learn how to apply biomimetics in a more functional way, says
   Michael Weinstock, director of the Architectural Association School of
   Architecture in London. Not only large projects but smaller homes and
   offices can benefit from the same principles, he insists. "One of our
   ambitions is to ensure that every building ought to be able to
   generate its own energy," he says.

   Bringing biomimetics home

   This need not require elaborate new structures like Grimshaw's theatre
   or indoor rainforest. Biomimetics can be applied in simpler ways, too.
   Smart paints which use a self-cleaning principle borrowed from lotus
   leaves are now being tested. Once applied, the surface of the paint
   takes the form of densely packed ridges or bumps, just like the
   microscopic bumps found on lotus leaves. A property of such tiny bumps
   is that they prevent drops of water from spreading out: the drops
   simply roll off the surface instead, taking dirt with them.
   (Self-cleaning glass relies on a similar principle.) And organic solar
   cells, which mimic photosynthetic processes to capture light and
   convert it into electricity, are arguably a form of biomimetic
   technology, too.

   "Part of the challenge, I believe, is to reconnect people with
   resources," says Mr Pawlyn. He makes a strong case that borrowing
   architectural ideas from nature can help to reduce the environmental
   impact of buildings. In the process, it may also encourage people to
   view natural systems with greater respect, in more ways than one.


                                                            Steve O'Brien

                               Steve O'Brien

   After the roughest of starts, things no longer look quite so dire for
   Sir Menzies Campbell

   NOBODY can say that Sir Menzies Campbell has had an easy first year as
   leader of his party. As poisoned chalices go, the leadership of the
   Liberal Democrats 12 months ago resembled something rustled up by
   Lucrezia Borgia on one of her more vengeful days. Yet this weekend
   many of the Lib Dems gathering in Harrogate for their spring
   conference sense that they may be closer to real power than at any
   time in living memory.

   When Sir Menzies (or Ming, as he prefers to be known) took over, the
   Lib Dems were reeling from two months of public self-destruction.
   Their previous leader, the popular but chaotic Charles Kennedy, had
   been pushed out by exasperated colleagues after belatedly confessing
   that he was an alcoholic. Mr Kennedy's supporters blamed Sir Menzies
   for planning the coup, unfairly dubbing him "Ming the Merciless".

   After revelations about their private lives undermined two contenders,
   Sir Menzies, supported by the party establishment, won less
   convincingly than expected against the relatively unknown Chris Huhne.
   During the campaign, his stately manner and at times slightly
   tremulous voice had made him seem old for his 64 years. He was also
   clearly uncomfortable dealing with domestic policy after a long period
   of specialising in foreign affairs.

   Nor did things immediately improve. At the weekly House of Commons
   bear-pit of prime minister's questions (PMQs) Sir Menzies was inept,
   his notes grasped in visibly shaking hands. Comparisons with the
   assured performances of the much younger Tory leader, David Cameron,
   were painful, as were bumbling attempts by Sir Menzies to suggest a
   familiarity with popular culture that had come more naturally to his
   predecessor, "Chatshow Charlie". A hundred days into his leadership,
   Sir Menzies cut a wretched figure.

   Since late summer, however, things have slowly got better. Helped by
   the fact that nobody in his right mind could contemplate the purgatory
   of another leadership contest before the next election, the Lib Dems
   put on a decent show of unity at their party conference in September.
   They also managed to win some positive coverage for the "green-tax
   switch" that allowed them to drop a damaging commitment to raising the
   upper rate of income tax to 50% in favour of environment-friendly
   taxes. With parliament's return after the long recess, Sir Menzies no
   longer looked quite so out of his depth at PMQs.

   Over the past few months he has also been lucky. There is now rather
   less interest in his shortcomings than in those of Gordon Brown, while
   Tony Blair's long goodbye has been dominated by foreign policy--in
   particular, by the attempts on both sides of the Atlantic to find a
   way out of the Iraq morass. That has played to Sir Menzies's strengths
   and reminded voters that the Lib Dems were the only major party to
   oppose the war.

   In January, egged on by some of his colleagues, Sir Menzies took the
   risk of calling for British forces to quit Iraq by October. Although
   he earned some (deserved) criticism for advocating a timetable that
   owed more to electoral populism than to concern for Britain's
   responsibilities, it won headlines. When Mr Blair announced last week
   the first phase of a withdrawal of the army from Basra, Sir Menzies
   was able to claim, somewhat speciously, that even the government now
   accepted his argument that there was nothing left for British troops
   usefully to do in Iraq.

   Crucially for Sir Menzies, his party's performance in the opinion
   polls has been resilient enough to prevent any panic in the ranks.
   Given Mr Cameron's grab for traditional Lib Dem voters on the
   environment, civil liberties and localism, the party's poll rating,
   hovering around 20%, has been impressive. Senior Lib Dems claim to be
   delighted that Mr Cameron has worked so hard to put climate change on
   the agenda. They point to polling data that suggests voters still
   think the Lib Dems are easily the greenest of the mainstream parties.
   The more salient environmental issues become, they argue, the better
   the Lib Dems should do. And, vitally, the topic provides an
   alternative to Iraq, which may well be stale by the next election.

   More than anything, however, Lib Dem morale is being sustained by the
   real possibility that the next election will result in a hung
   parliament. This week Sir Menzies surprised colleagues by revealing
   that the party had begun work on its negotiating strategy in case the
   election went that way. Sir Menzies has asked Paul Burstow, his chief
   whip, to examine the conventions on coalition discussions, which were
   last used in February 1974.

   Unfortunately, no primer can tell Sir Menzies what he should do in
   what is likely to be a fluid situation. Even if Labour ends up with
   the largest number of seats it could still have a significantly lower
   share of the vote than the Tories, thanks to the quirks of the
   electoral system. Supporting it in exchange for a promise to introduce
   proportional representation, which benefits third parties, would look
   opportunistic. But throwing their weight to the Tories, while
   extracting little in return from Mr Cameron, would strike left-leaning
   Lib Dem activists as a betrayal of principle.

   Patiently does it

   That suggests the Lib Dems need one of two things to happen if they
   are to realise their goal of voting reform. Mr Brown might abandon his
   usual caution and announce--well before the election--his intention to
   bring in some form of PR as part of a wider package of constitutional
   modernisation.

   But if, as is more likely, Mr Brown stays true to form and does
   nothing, Sir Menzies will have to take a punt that a second, quickly
   held, election would also result in a hung parliament. That has never
   happened before, but it just might create the conditions for getting
   the kind of deal his party could accept. It would also change British
   politics for ever. Sir Menzies can't help looking old, but what he
   must not do is give the impression that he is in too much of a hurry.




   The contest to run Europe's biggest city is taking shape


   LONDONERS eager to prove that their metropolis really is, in
   Disraeli's words, "a roost for every bird" usually cite ordinary life
   at ground level: the diversity of races and languages, the yuppies,
   artists and immigrants juxtaposed in the same east London postcodes.
   They can now point to their aspiring rulers, too.

   The third election for the mayor of London, an office created in 2000
   for a city that had lacked its own administration since 1986, comes in
   May. The principal candidates are as curious as the population they
   hope to govern: a left-wing iconoclast who often favours globalisation
   (the Labour incumbent, Ken Livingstone), a shock-headed Old Etonian
   eccentric (the Conservative Boris Johnson) and a libertarian gay
   ex-policeman (the Liberal Democrat Brian Paddick), who made his name
   with a tolerant line on cannabis when he commanded a south London
   borough.

   Many Londoners are indifferent as to who their mayor is (voting
   turnout was only 37% in 2004). Yet the office has come to matter. The
   mayor controls a budget of 10.6 billion ($20.9 billion)--up from 3.8
   billion in 2001-02, and divided mostly between transport and policing
   (see chart). He also has powers over cultural matters and economic
   development; in 2006 he acquired more clout over housing, planning,
   the environment, and learning and skills. The biggest directly elected
   office in the country is also a bully pulpit.

   It is true, says Tony Travers of the London School of Economics, that
   London's mayor is weaker than his counterparts in New York and Tokyo,
   and that much power, particularly over schools, remains with the
   city's 32 boroughs. But he is also relatively unconstrained by his
   municipal council. The London Assembly does little more than vote on
   the mayor's annual budget--a pygmy next to the mighty New York City
   Council.

   Mr Livingstone, who won office as an independent in 2000 and retained
   it for Labour in 2004, has done better than many expected. He
   introduced a congestion charge in the centre of town (piquing the
   interest of other cities) and a more efficient ticketing system for
   public transport, expanding the bus service. He has enjoyed good
   relations with city financiers while redistributing wealth through
   planning decisions: developers are allowed to build in return for
   including affordable housing and other goodies for the poor. He also
   helped secure the 2012 Olympics for London and cash from the central
   government for a new cross-city train service.

   The mayor has his critics, however. Some attack his policies. The
   council-tax precept which helps fund the Greater London Authority
   (GLA), along with central-government grants and public-transport
   ticket revenues, has risen. Congestion has not dropped hugely. The
   mayor's enthusiasm for development (he wants a big increase in
   housebuilding, and a new generation of skyscrapers) alarms many, and
   he is thought indifferent to the suburbs.

   Mr Livingstone's style also draws ire. He is truculent, calling the
   American ambassador to London a "chiselling little crook" for not
   making embassy officials pay the congestion charge. He compared a
   Jewish journalist to a concentration-camp guard, and shared a platform
   with Yusuf al-Qaradawi, a controversial Muslim cleric. Some resent his
   grandstanding (he signed a deal to get oil from Venezuela's Hugo
   Chvez last year) and the public money he spends promoting the GLA and
   its works. There are also allegations that his London Development
   Agency made grants to dubious businesses linked to Lee Jasper, a close
   adviser, a charge that Mr Livingstone dismisses as a smear.

   Yet he remains a formidable politician, and the Tories' choice of
   candidate to run against him is a risky one. Mr Johnson's journalistic
   career was stellar (he was editor of the Spectator, among other jobs)
   but punctuated by controversy. He became an MP, but concealing an
   affair led to his removal from the Tory front bench in 2004 by Michael
   Howard, the party's leader; David Cameron, Mr Howard's successor,
   restored him. His sense of fun knows few bounds (Mr Paddick calls him
   a "clown"), which critics say equips him ill to run a city with dire
   social problems.

   Some Tories fear privately that a heavy defeat would reflect badly on
   Mr Cameron, who backed his schoolfellow's candidacy; others think a
   shambolic performance as mayor might be even more damaging. The
   former, at least, were heartened by a YouGov poll on January 3rd that
   put support for Mr Livingstone, at 45%, only one percentage point
   ahead of that for Mr Johnson (Mr Paddick lagged some way behind). Mr
   Johnson's own polling suggests that Londoners are now less willing to
   distinguish the mayor from the unpopular national Labour government.
   Mr Johnson kept a low public profile until the new year but visited
   every borough and recruited new staff in the meantime.

   What would a win by either main candidate mean for London? Transport
   defined the previous two elections but is declining as a concern among
   Londoners. The manifesto that Mr Johnson launched on January 7th
   focuses on violent crime and the housing shortage; he will keep the
   congestion charge, but tinker with its enforcement. Mr Livingstone
   emphasises the environment, noting Mr Johnson's lack of greenery. He
   also wants to consolidate London's 32 boroughs into five but is
   unlikely to achieve this even if he wins.

   A contest between two strong and controversial personalities could,
   for the first time since the office of mayor was created, make for a
   gripping election. Whoever Londoners choose to rule their roost will
   be a curious bird indeed.


   Too much or not enough?

   WHAT will happen to global migration in the next half-century? Whether
   they think migration is good or bad, experts agree on one thing: that
   governments are generally failing, or not even trying, to manage it
   properly. Some would like to see the establishment of a new
   international body, along the lines of the World Trade Organisation,
   or give more powers to the UN's existing International Organisation
   for Migration. Others hope to decouple migration policy from party
   politics. In America, hostility to migrants has been making serious
   policy reform impossible for nearly two decades.

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

        Available now: young risk-takers, willing to travel, lots of
                               get-up-and-go

   "We can't touch a comma without killing each other," complains
   Demetrios Papademetriou of the Migration Policy Institute in
   Washington, DC. "The only discretion we have is whether to enforce the
   law or not." There is a lot of nasty rhetoric about illegal migrants,
   but politicians also lobby for cheap migrant workers in their
   constituencies.

   Those who think about the longer term agree that some of the
   assumptions of recent decades need revisiting. There is more
   scepticism, for example, that family reunification benefits host
   countries. But not many of them weigh up the most extreme scenarios:
   how would the world fare if either the flow of migrants were to slow
   down radically or, conversely, there were no legal limits on migration
   at all?

   Rates of migration might slow if countries were to slam their doors
   shut, or because the supply of migrants declines. If political
   pressure became strong enough, rich countries might decide to squeeze
   foreign labour whatever the economic price. That is what happened in
   America just before the first world war. Within a few years Congress,
   overturning a veto by President Woodrow Wilson, passed laws that
   sharply cut the inflow of migrants. Immigration slumped and stayed low
   until the 1960s. Other rich countries also slapped on restrictions.

   If something similar happened today, there might be some benefits. For
   example, it might become easier to integrate existing immigrant
   communities. Perhaps, as Japan appears to be hoping, more jobs could
   be carried out by machines. Possibly, ageing natives in rich countries
   might do more of the jobs that they now shun. Such countries would
   probably have to lower their expectations of economic growth.

   It is also possible that the steady supply of workers from nearby
   countries could one day dry up. Patterns of migration will certainly
   change. Note how quickly countries switch from exporting to importing
   labour as they develop. Until recently Spain and other parts of
   southern Europe were sending lots of workers abroad, but demographic
   and economic changes have made them into net labour importers.
   Portugal now attracts Ukrainians, Spain draws in Romanians and
   Moroccans.

   In the coming decades, the next lot of emigration countries will grow
   richer and older too. The average age in Ukraine is already 40 and in
   Poland 38, not very different from the west European average. Even
   Moroccans and Mexicans are, on average, already in their mid-20s. With
   rapid growth in their own economies, wages back home rise too, and the
   supply of emigrants will eventually drop. Those countries, in turn,
   will then start to attract more workers from farther away. For the
   foreseeable future there will always be another pool in which to fish
   for workers, but that will mean drawing migrants from more and more
   distant cultures.

   The other scenario, of a world wide open to migration, is less likely
   but would be more beneficial. Some regions--most of the EU, much of
   west Africa--do have unrestricted movement, and seem to be faring well
   with it.

   Philippe Legrain (formerly a writer on The Economist), in his recent
   book, "Immigrants: Your Country Needs Them", argues that stopping
   people from migrating is both "morally wrong and economically stupid".
   Lant Pritchett, of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, argues
   that faster global migration would bring huge gains for poor
   countries, exceeding the combined rewards offered by foreign aid, debt
   relief and trade reforms proposed under the Doha development round.

   How to make the world richer

   If labour flowed without restraint, social and political systems would
   be disrupted on a huge scale, but global poverty would be vastly
   relieved. A study in 1984 suggested that if the flow of labour were
   freed completely, the size of the world economy would double. Another
   study in 2003 more modestly put the gains to world GDP at nearly 10%.
   An estimate in 2004 of the impact of letting 16m more migrants into
   OECD economies suggested a global gain of $156 billion, or about 0.6%
   of world GDP--not a large rise, but again the poor would be winners.

   Opening borders to let many more job-seekers go where they please
   would be radical, but it would not mean allowing criminals,
   drug-smugglers or terrorists to move freely between countries. And
   there are many ways of doing it. Holger Kolb, a migration expert, has
   suggested allowing unlimited numbers of foreign workers into rich
   countries but charging them a fee on arrival. That would cut out the
   people-smugglers, and the revenues could help to pay for public
   services. Another option would be to charge foreign workers higher
   rates of tax than locals. Such ideas should be explored.

   The moral case for migration is incontrovertible: it greatly lessens
   human misery. The cultural gains from migrants are usually obvious,
   too. But the economic case needs to be made more forcefully. Over the
   past few decades the freer movement of capital and traded goods has
   brought enormous gains to human welfare. Similar benefits can be
   expected from a freer flow of people. Policymakers in rich countries
   must make those benefits more transparent. They need to persuade
   voters that natives and migrants alike gain as larger workforces speed
   up economic growth; and that foreigners not only fill jobs but act as
   entrepreneurs who in turn create jobs and wealth. In the longer term,
   migrants will be essential to supplement shrinking native workforces.
   The question currently being asked in the rich world--whether
   immigration rates are unsustainably high--may be the wrong one.
   Perhaps they are not nearly high enough.


   Political donations attract controversy once more

   IF SEX was the richest source of scandal under the last Conservative
   government, money has taken its place under Labour. Its first major
   controversy, in 1997, involved a donation from Bernie Ecclestone, a
   motor-racing tycoon. Tony Blair's final year as prime minister was
   dogged by a police investigation into whether peerages had been
   offered in return for loans. Last November the party's general
   secretary resigned over donations received from a property developer
   through third parties.

   The latest uproar involves Peter Hain, secretary of state both for
   Wales and for work and pensions. He campaigned last year for Labour's
   deputy leadership but came fifth of six candidates. On November 29th
   Mr Hain admitted that he had failed to register a 5,000 ($9,800)
   donation to his campaign. Four days later, after it emerged that a
   gift in kind by another donor had not been declared either, he
   promised to study his records and produce a full list of undeclared
   donations. On January 10th he revealed that there were 17 of these,
   amounting to over 103,000.

   Murkier still is the role played by an obscure think-tank, the
   Progressive Policies Forum (PPF), in channelling 55,000 to the
   campaign. Set up in December 2006, three months after Mr Hain said he
   would run for the post, it employs no staff and has published no
   research.

   Mr Hain blames the failure to declare the donations on sloppy campaign
   staff, and notes that the money came from legal sources. But critics
   insist that an oversight on this scale is unforgivable in a politician
   entrusted with running two departments. Even more troubling, they say,
   is the PPF. Many assume the think-tank was used to mask the identity
   of donors, but Mr Hain says he was not involved in setting it up.

   Mr Hain's future rests on the outcome of inquiries launched by the
   Electoral Commission (EC) and the parliamentary commissioner for
   standards. He is seen as a capable minister, but his vaulting ambition
   (his profligate campaign included an expensive full-page advertisement
   in a national newspaper) and lack of socialist roots (he was a Liberal
   before joining Labour) have denied him a base in the party. Support
   from the prime minister is also nuanced: on January 15th Gordon Brown
   absolved his minister of "corruption", attributing his mistake to
   "incompetence".

   The Conservatives' own funding controversies have contained that
   party's glee at Mr Hain's troubles. It was revealed on January 14th
   that David Cameron, the Tory leader, had failed to declare to the EC
   three free flights in 2005 (though they were declared in the
   parliamentary Register of Members' Interests). The day before, George
   Osborne, the shadow chancellor, was hit by the revelation that he did
   not declare more than 487,000 in donations in the register (though he
   did to the EC). Donors had given the money to the Tories' central
   budget but expressed a wish that it be used to support Mr Osborne.

   The cases are different. Mr Hain did not report his donations at all;
   Mr Osborne reported his to the EC, and it is not clear that they
   should have been declared in the parliamentary register as well.
   Guidance solicited from the registrar in December by the Tories' chief
   whip, Patrick McLoughlin, was taken to mean that the donations needed
   to be recorded only with the EC. The registrar then backtracked,
   prompting Mr McLoughlin to ask the Parliamentary Committee on
   Standards and Privileges on January 11th for clarification. But Labour
   MPs ask why the Tories waited 11 months after they began receiving the
   contributions to seek advice. The parliamentary commissioner for
   standards said on January 17th that he was investigating a complaint
   against Mr Osborne by two Labour MPs, who have also asked the EC to
   look into whether 80 Tory MPs have disclosed other types of donation
   properly.

   A badly needed cross-party consensus on reforming political-party
   funding has yet to emerge. The latest controversies should prompt
   agreement at least on the need for simplicity, however. The parallel
   existence of the EC and the parliamentary register, each with its own
   rules, ensures confusion. The sex scandals of the 1990s may have been
   seedy, but they were rarely the result of a misunderstanding.


   The government wants to build up a marine-energy industry

   THE British have always looked to the sea to protect them from the
   earth's dangers. The ocean is a handy deterrent to foreign armies, but
   it is useful for other things too. In the midst of the energy crisis
   of the 1970s, there was much talk that marine energy would let its
   possessors break free of OPEC. With the arrival of North Sea oil,
   marine energy was forgotten. But 35 years later, with North Sea oil in
   decline, climate change a big issue and wind farms facing lengthy
   planning delays, sea power is back on the agenda.

   On September 17th the government announced that planning permission
   had been given for Wave Hub, a 28m project off the north Cornish
   coast that will provide a sea-floor "socket" allowing wave-power
   generators to get their electricity back to shore. The South West
   Regional Development Agency (SWRDA), a quango which will part-fund the
   project, has high hopes. Four firms are planning to connect their
   machines, forming what officials hope will be the world's biggest wave
   farm, with 30 machines supplying up to 20 megawatts of power. An
   existing wave-power project in the Orkney islands is set to expand,
   and officials are studying a multi-billion-pound private-sector plan
   to harness the tides near the mouth of the river Severn.

   Marine energy, and especially wave power, is still an immature
   technology. Many designs concentrate on surviving the fury of ocean
   storms rather than maximising energy production. Nor is it cheap.
   Firms are coy about giving precise figures but the Carbon Trust, a
   government-funded green consultancy, reckoned the price a year ago was
   between 22p and 25p per kilowatt hour--around nine times the price of
   gas-fired electricity.

   Boosters argue that technology and mass production will bring costs
   down. British officials seem to agree. Having noticed the success of
   the Danes in developing their wind-turbine industry, both the SWRDA
   and the Scottish Executive want to do the same for ocean power.

   Geography is one advantage: rough seas and big tides make the British
   isles one of the best places in the world for sea power. The Carbon
   Trust believes that, in theory, sea power could provide 20% of the
   country's electricity. There is engineering expertise, notably in
   Aberdeen, where the offshore oil industry has been installing complex
   machinery in rough seas for decades. The International Energy Agency
   thinks that Britain is pursuing more marine-power designs (29) than
   any other country (America, with 13, is second). Scotland already
   boasts the European Marine Energy Centre, a research outfit, an
   advantage the West Country hopes to counteract by spending 15m on a
   similar organisation attached to the universities of Exeter and
   Plymouth.

   The economics are more complicated. David Weaver, the chief executive
   of Oceanlinx, one of the firms planning to use the Wave Hub, argues
   that Britain's liberalised and transparent power markets make life
   easier for newcomers, although others argue that fluctuating power
   prices make planning tricky. Subsidies are more generous in countries
   such as Portugal, which is keen on building a marine-power sector of
   its own and offers extra cash to less mature technologies.

   Not everyone is enthusiastic. When the Wave Hub was announced, Cornish
   surfers worried that it might make their tubes less gnarly. Others are
   more concerned about the price. Mr Edge reckons that the Danes spent
   around 1 billion creating their wind-turbine industry. Setting up a
   British marine-power sector will cost a similar amount, he says--a big
   jump from the 28m Wave Hub.


   How far can Nick Clegg take the party he now leads?

                                                                      EPA
                                                                      EPA

                                                       Nick's close shave

   IF INDIFFERENCE is crueller than mockery, the Liberal Democrats, who
   elected a new leader, Nick Clegg, on December 18th, must be piqued.
   The nation hardly noticed the contest between the 40-year-old former
   home affairs spokesman and Chris Huhne, who held the environment
   brief, to replace Sir Menzies Campbell, who resigned in October. Even
   a tight finish (the winning margin was 511 votes out of 41,465 cast)
   was not enough to lend the announcement a sense of import.

   Yet the Lib Dems are an important party. They won 22% of votes cast in
   the 2005 general election, and have not slipped below 16% in any
   election since 1992. Britain's first-past-the-post electoral system
   gives them only 62 of Parliament's 646 MPs (hence their enthusiasm for
   proportional voting models), but that tally still represents a
   post-war peak for a third party at Westminster.

   The Lib Dems' ability to command such support partly explains why no
   party may be able to get an overall parliamentary majority at the next
   election. John Curtice, a psephologist at Strathclyde University,
   reckons that, all else being equal, a 20% share of the vote for the
   Liberal Democrats would leave the Tories needing to win by more than
   9% to govern alone.

   But the Lib Dems have struggled recently, falling to 12% in the polls
   under Sir Menzies. The plunge was attributed to his lacklustre
   leadership (he looked older than his 66 years), as well as strong
   performances first from Labour, after Gordon Brown took over in June,
   and then from the Conservatives after the prime minister ducked
   calling a general election. Coming just a year-and-a-half after their
   previous leadership contest--prompted by the resignation of Charles
   Kennedy over confessed drink problems--Sir Menzies's departure made
   the Lib Dems look divided and inconsequential.

   Yet there are signs of recovery in the polls, for which Mr Clegg can
   thank not only the government's woes but also Vince Cable, the
   treasury spokesman who served as an interim leader. Aged 64, he did
   not take part in the contest, but his intellect and wit--he mocked the
   transformation of Mr Brown "from Stalin to Mr Bean"--have made many
   wish he had.

   Confidence in Mr Clegg's ability to build on Mr Cable's stewardship
   has cooled. His campaign did not show the vigour needed to win media
   coverage for a third party. But he has youth and charisma on his side.
   That he embodies his party's classical liberal wing--rather than the
   social-democratic one that Mr Huhne pitched to--will also help in the
   many constituencies it is defending from the Tories.

   If a hung parliament does materialise, the Lib Dems could be
   king-makers--entering a coalition government with either of the main
   parties. The Tories already appear to be courting them. On December
   15th David Cameron, the Conservative leader, invited them to
   co-operate with his party on decentralisation. For Mr Cameron to be
   wooing a party unpopular with his own suggests he knows how limited
   his options may be after the next election.

   The Lib Dems, though, are rarely smug about the pivotal role they
   could play at that point. And with reason: they have reached nothing
   approaching a consensus on which of the two main parties they would
   prefer as partners, or whether coalition would be acceptable at all.
   The party's activists are to the left of its leadership and would
   struggle to accept a deal with the Tories. Yet propping up a tired
   Labour government they regard as indifferent to civil liberties and
   the environment would be scarcely more palatable.

   Burdens as well as opportunities, then, for Mr Clegg. The attention
   his victory received was modest; the influence he may come to wield is
   anything but.


   Rates stay on hold, but not for long


   BUSINESS lobbies cajoled, politicians hinted. It was to no avail. The
   response from the Bank of England this week was as stony as its faade
   in Threadneedle Street. The central bank resisted the pleas to cut
   interest rates for a second month running.

   As in December, when the bank lowered the base rate from 5.75% to
   5.5%, its monetary-policy committee (MPC) faced a quandary. On the one
   hand, the exhibits pointing to a sharp slowdown caused by the credit
   crunch are piling up ominously. On the other hand, the menace of a
   renewed bout of inflation is looming larger.

   There was a strong case for repeating the prescription of lower
   interest rates this month. Business volumes in the big
   financial-services sector have recently been dropping at the fastest
   pace since the depths of the recession of the early 1990s, according
   to a report this week from the CBI, an employers' organisation. This
   chimed with the Bank of England's own findings on the credit market,
   published on January 3rd. The survey showed steep declines in the
   availability of credit in the last three months of 2007 compared with
   the previous quarter. Lenders said that they were expecting further
   sharp falls in the first three months of 2008.

   Tighter credit is already constricting the housing market. In November
   only 83,000 mortgage loans to buy homes were approved, compared with
   an average monthly total of 110,000 over the previous five years. The
   annual rate of house-price inflation has halved since last autumn,
   falling from 10.7% in September to 5.2% in December, according to
   HBOS, a bank.

   With consumer confidence at a low ebb, shops are feeling the pinch.
   The British Retail Consortium reported the weakest sales in December
   for three years. Retailers' share prices have been wilting further on
   fears of a consumer slowdown this year (see chart). Marks & Spencer's
   price nosedived on January 9th after Britain's biggest clothing
   retailer reported tough trading conditions.

   As household spending sags, exports are unlikely to provide much
   offsetting support for economic growth because the international
   outlook has darkened again. Following very weak employment and
   manufacturing figures, some economists are now arguing that America
   may already have slipped into recession. The euro area is in better
   shape, but its economy is set to slow appreciably in 2008.

   The deterioration in Britain's outlook for growth might have pointed
   to a rate cut this month but the central bank also had to take into
   account worsening inflation prospects. Consumer-price inflation is
   only just above the government's 2.0% target, but the recent surge in
   world oil and gas prices will feed through to higher domestic
   inflation in the months ahead. Petrol prices have continued to rise
   and home-energy costs are now on the way up.

   Weakness in the pound, reflecting worries about a slowing British
   economy, is also likely to push up inflation. Sterling's
   trade-weighted value has slipped by 4% since the MPC met in December
   and is now 9% lower than in July 2007. Putting it all together,
   consumer-price inflation will rise to 2.4% in January and to 2.9% in
   September, according to new forecasts from Barclays Capital, an
   investment bank.

   The resurgence in inflationary pressures in early 2008 will coincide
   with the peak period for negotiating new pay deals. At such a
   sensitive time, the Bank of England needed to demonstrate its
   commitment to keeping inflation under control, in order to avoid a
   destabilising wage-price spiral. A sharp reduction since mid-December
   in the spread of interbank lending rates over the base rate gave the
   MPC room for manoeuvre. Provided the committee feels that inflationary
   expectations remain in check, it will cut rates again soon in order to
   fend off a severe downturn.


   Medicine: A new approach to proton-beam radiotherapy, which allows
   treatment to be precisely targeted, could make it more widely
   available

   RADIOTHERAPY, the use of radiation zipping through the DNA of cancer
   cells to kill them or halt their reproduction, has always had the
   disadvantage of causing collateral damage to healthy tissue. But some
   forms of radiation are worse than others. One of the best is a beam of
   protons. Unlike X-rays, the standard radiotherapeutic tool, a proton
   beam can be tuned in a way that causes it to dump its destructive
   energy at a particular depth beneath the skin. This means it can
   destroy a tumour without damaging other tissue. Unfortunately, the
   machines needed to generate such beams weigh several hundred tonnes
   and cost $100m or more to build. So although proton therapy has been
   available since 1990, there are still only about 25 clinics around the
   world that offer it.

   An announcement at a meeting of the American Association of Physicists
   in Medicine, held in Minneapolis in July, could change this, however.
   Thomas Mackie of the University of Wisconsin has a new approach that
   he hopes will bring the cost of a proton-therapy machine down to $20m
   and the space required to a smallish room.

   The dielectric-wall accelerator (DWA) that lies at the heart of Dr
   Mackie's machine was designed in the 1990s at the Lawrence Livermore
   National Laboratory in California as a portable X-ray source. At
   first, it was used to accelerate electrons rather than protons. Those
   electrons were smashed into a metal target to generate the high-energy
   X-rays that Livermore's physicists needed to peek inside ageing bombs
   and check that they were still in working order. But Dennis Matthews,
   one of Livermore's more medically minded programme directors, realised
   that by changing the polarity of the machine it could be used to
   accelerate positively charged protons, rather than negatively charged
   electrons. He then teamed up with the cancer centre at the University
   of California, Davis, to investigate the possibility of using a DWA
   for proton therapy.

   The advantage of the DWA is its small size. Like all particle
   accelerators, it uses an electric field to speed up electrically
   charged particles. Most accelerators, however, speed up the particles
   over a long distance, using a moderate field. The DWA employs a
   succession of enormous fields over just a couple of metres.

   That it is able to do so is the result of two technical advances. The
   first is an arrangement of insulating materials and conductors called
   a high-gradient insulator. Every insulator has a threshold beyond
   which the electrons are ripped off its component atoms and it becomes
   a conductor. Livermore's high-gradient insulator, though, damps down
   the early stages of this ripping process and creates a threshold so
   high that it can support the electric fields the DWA requires.

   The second advance is a way of switching thousands of volts on and off
   in a few billionths of a second, a previously impossible feat. This
   requires a trick opposite to the first one--suddenly making an
   insulator into a conductor. The insulator in question is silicon
   carbide. When hit with laser light of the correct frequency, it
   becomes conductive.

   The DWA, then, is a tube with an inner wall made of the high-gradient
   insulator and a series of silicon carbide switches along its length.
   As the switches are hit by a carefully timed sequence of laser pulses,
   a powerful electric field is created. Viewed from inside the tube,
   this field looks like an accelerating electrical pulse, and it is this
   pulse that picks up and carries the electrons--or, if the polarity is
   reversed, the protons.

   Once Davis's scientists had pronounced the general idea sound, they
   and Dr Matthews looked around for a commercial collaborator. They lit
   on a firm called TomoTherapy, which is where Dr Mackie came in--for,
   besides working at Wisconsin, he is also TomoTherapy's co-founder. At
   the moment the firm sells machines that tune traditional, X-ray-based
   radiotherapy to make it more effective. The idea is to adapt the
   techniques the firm has developed for controlling X-rays to control
   protons. It will take a while to determine whether this will work. But
   if it does, radiation therapy for cancer could become a lot less
   traumatic and a lot more effective.


   The sleaze spreads north 

   FOR Gordon Brown, the party-funding scandal which has already claimed
   the job of the Labour Party's general secretary, Peter Watt, and
   threatens senior figures in the government shows no sign of going
   away. It has instead spread north to his native Scotland, where Wendy
   Alexander, Labour's leader in the devolved Parliament, is fighting to
   save her career.

   The sum involved in Ms Alexander's case (950, or $1,960) is comically
   small next to the more than 660,000 given to the Labour Party by
   David Abrahams, a Newcastle businessman, through intermediaries. Yet
   Ms Alexander, seen but recently as the Scottish Labour Party's shining
   hope, boobed tremendously. To finance her leadership campaign (which,
   since she was the only candidate, was not a costly affair) she raised
   16,000, including 950 from Paul Green. A property developer who
   lives in the Channel Islands, Mr Green cannot vote in British
   elections, so accepting his cash was against the law.

   Ms Alexander maintains that she was led to believe the money came from
   a Glasgow company controlled by Mr Green. But the company denies any
   knowledge of the donation. Mr Green insists it was a personal
   contribution, even brandishing a letter of thanks from Ms Alexander
   sent to his Jersey home. One head has already rolled: Charlie Gordon,
   a Labour Member of the Scottish Parliament (MSP) from Glasgow, who
   solicited Mr Green's donation, has resigned as the party's transport
   spokesman. But this has failed to pacify those such as Sir Alistair
   Graham, a former chairman of Westminster's Committee on Standards in
   Public Life, who believe that Ms Alexander should consider her
   position, too.

   Many wonder whether Ms Alexander, who claims that a pile of evidence
   sent to the Electoral Commission will clear her, is under orders from
   Mr Brown to stand firm. Resigning would, after all, increase pressure
   on Harriet Harman, the Labour deputy leader, who accepted money from
   Mr Abrahams's intermediary during her campaign for that post, and on
   Peter Hain, the work and pensions secretary, who failed to declare a
   5,000 donation during the same race. It would also have some
   importance for Mr Brown himself. Ms Alexander is his protge; her
   brother, Douglas Alexander, is his international-development secretary
   and one of his closest advisers.

   The prime minister may also want Ms Alexander to remain because he
   trusts no one else to revive Scottish Labour's bleak fortunes. Up
   against a Scottish National Party (SNP) that echoes Scottish public
   opinion in urging stronger devolved government, on November 30th she
   proposed a constitutional commission to examine the case for more
   powers. With Mr Brown's approval, she argued that it should consider
   more tax-raising powers and a new funding settlement for the United
   Kingdom's four constituent nations.

   Conservatives and Liberal Democrats like the idea, seeing it as a
   unionist counter-thrust against the Nationalists' ambitions for
   full-blown independence. The hardest sell is to Scottish Labour
   itself, which is suspicious of anything that looks like doing the
   SNP's job for them. "Is there anyone else with the clout with Gordon
   Brown to see this through?" wonders one Tory MSP. "I don't think so."

   So more than Ms Alexander's fate rests on whether the Electoral
   Commission concludes that she took "reasonable steps" to check that
   the 950 donation was legal, and therefore did not "knowingly" accept
   an illegal gift. If it does not, she is likely to go the same way as
   Mr Watt and Mr Gordon. That would make life even tougher for the
   beleaguered Mr Brown.


   Is the health service really so good?


   "SICKO", the latest film from the left-wing American agitpropagandist
   Michael Moore, has already drawn a lot of comment for its favourable
   comparison of health care in Cuba with that in the United States. But
   Mr Moore does not reserve all his praise for the tiny Communist
   island. He lavishes admiration on Britain's National Health Service,
   presenting a vision of helpful staff and generous treatment.

   Britons themselves might doubt details of this assessment. In the past
   decade the government has increased spending on the NHS at a record
   rate, but the political pay-off has been abysmal. Polls show that
   people now reckon the Conservatives have better policies on health
   than Labour does. The number telling pollsters that the NHS has become
   worse since 1997 greatly exceeds those who say it has improved. On May
   23rd Patricia Hewitt, the health secretary, fought to survive a vote
   of no confidence in the House of Commons.

   Yet a recent report from the Commonwealth Fund, a health-policy
   think-tank in America, seems to side with Mr Moore. Comparing health
   care in six developed countries, it ranks Britain top. Germany comes
   second, followed by Australia and New Zealand in joint third place,
   and then Canada. America is last. Britain has seized the top spot
   after coming third in the two previous surveys, in 2004 and 2006.

   The report is a welcome antidote to unthinking pessimism about the
   NHS, but its rosy view is open to question. The survey uses 69
   indicators to rank the countries in five areas: quality, access,
   equity, outcomes and efficiency. Offering free health care to all, the
   NHS does unsurprisingly well on equity, but it comes fourth on health
   outcomes and access. What pushes it into top place overall is that it
   ranks first on quality and efficiency.

   On both of these counts, the scoring is debatable. Britain gets the
   best mark for quality even though it has the joint-worst score for the
   proportion of patients reporting an infection in hospital. This seems
   a more important failure than coming last, as Canada did, in prompting
   doctors by computer to give patients a test result. Yet both
   indicators are given the same weight.

   The efficiency rating is based on an eclectic range of indicators,
   such as health-care spending as a share of GDP and whether patients
   visit hospitals' emergency departments for conditions that could have
   been treated by family doctors. The individual comparisons may be
   revealing, but the sum of the parts does not measure efficiency, which
   is how effectively a system turns inputs into outputs.

   Perhaps most important, the indicators are skewed towards the services
   of family doctors. Britain has long won plaudits for the primary care
   delivered by its GPs. The real worries have been about hospitals,
   especially the long waiting times for elective operations. Although
   excessive waits have been slashed, there are still almost 700,000
   people on the waiting list.

   And now it looks as if Labour's reforms in primary care are
   backfiring. A new contract for GPs pushed up their average pay by 23%
   in its first year, though their workload dropped by more than five
   hours a week between 2004 and 2005. Practices open on Saturdays are a
   thing of the past.

   Gordon Brown, the prime minister to be, has promised to improve access
   to GPs at weekends and in the evenings. He will have to do more.
   However the NHS ranks internationally, what counts at home is that
   Labour has got poor value for the extra money poured into it.


   Technology and society: Is the outbreak of cancer videos, bulimia
   blogs and other forms of "user generated" medical information a
   healthy trend?


   VIDEOS of skateboarding dogs on YouTube might not appear to have
   anything to do with blogs about living with asthma. But the rise of
   "user-generated content"--spurred by sites such as YouTube, Facebook
   and Wikipedia--has also infected health care. Millions are now logging
   on to contribute information about topics stretching from avian-flu
   pandemics to the extraction of wisdom teeth or the use of acupuncture
   to overcome infertility. You could call it user-generated health care,
   or Health 2.0.

   In some ways this is nothing new. The BrainTalk Communities, an online
   support group for neurology patients, began in 1993. But content now
   comes in different forms, such as blogs and videos, and there are many
   more contributors. More than 20% of American internet users have
   created some sort of health-related content, according to Jupiter, a
   market-research firm. The hype around "Web 2.0" has made people aware
   of the new possibilities, says John Grohol, a psychologist who
   launched PsychCentral.com, a mental-health website, in 1995. The
   result, he says, has been a "snowball effect" of new content and new
   users.

   To gauge the size of this snowball, look at OrganizedWisdom, a firm
   based in New York. It launched in October 2006 as a health-care
   Wikipedia of sorts: a site to which consumers could contribute their
   own nuggets of health wisdom. Yet after only a few months it
   transformed itself into an index of the existing web content. The
   firm's founders had discovered that there already was quite enough
   user-generated health information online; the real problem was finding
   the good stuff.

   The explosion of user-generated content in health care is, in part,
   the result of broader internet trends: more and more people have
   broadband access and the tools for creating content are getting easier
   to use. New software, for instance, makes it easy to launch and
   maintain a site such as FluWikie (which provides information about
   preparing for an influenza pandemic), and digital cameras make it a
   snap to take and upload photos of, say, epigastric hernia surgery.

   But there are other drivers, too. Those with multiple chronic
   conditions, such as diabetes and depression, or lesser-known illnesses
   such as chronic fatigue syndrome, are anxious to get tips from others
   in similar situations. And today's body of medical knowledge is too
   vast for any one doctor to know it all. Cathy Fischer, a producer at a
   non-profit television company in San Francisco, for example, was not
   getting the information she needed from her doctor. So she joined an
   online group to connect with others who, like her, had undergone
   fibroid surgery.

   In some ways it is strange that there is so much discussion of
   health-related matters online, given that health, like money, is a
   topic that many people will not discuss even with family members.
   People do not seem to realise how permanent information can be online,
   warns Jennifer King, a researcher at the University of California in
   Berkeley. She worries that personal data could be misused. Some sites
   mitigate that risk by recommending the use of pseudonyms. So Meg7
   talks about her family's struggle with Lou Gehrig's disease, Aprilly
   shares information about babies with colic, and jojo1972 writes about
   how she handles migraine headaches.

   Misinformation is another worry. On the internet, as the old saying
   goes, nobody knows you are a dog--or an idiot, notes Dan Keldsen of
   AIIM, a non-profit association based in Silver Spring, Maryland, which
   helps companies manage digital information. And too much health
   information can confuse people, says Monique Levy of Jupiter. But a
   survey by the Pew Internet & American Life Project in Washington, DC,
   suggests that although user-generated information offers consumers
   more health options, the upside outweighs the risk, says Pew's
   Susannah Fox. Nearly one-third of the 100m Americans who have looked
   for health information online say that they or people they know have
   been significantly helped by what they found. In contrast, only 3%
   reported that online advice had caused serious harm.

   A lot of user-generated health information is accurate. A panel of
   neurology specialists judged that only 6% of information posted in the
   epilepsy-support group of BrainTalk was factually wrong, according to
   a study published in 2004 in the British Medical Journal. And with
   enough people online, misinformation is often quickly corrected.
   Inaccurate posts on the [3]website of the Association of Cancer Online
   Resources (ACOR), for example, will be pointed out within two hours,
   says Gilles Frydman, the founder of the association, based in New
   York.

   In some cases web-based information from other sufferers can be a
   patient's best hope. In the BrainTalk study, 40% of respondents said
   they used the site because their doctors did not or could not answer
   their questions. But the internet's power to connect people means that
   a person diagnosed with a rare form of cancer can find hundreds of
   other people across the world who can recommend doctors or provide
   first-hand information about treatment, explains Mr Frydman. He
   founded ACOR in 1996 after his wife was given inaccurate information
   about the treatment she needed for breast cancer. Given the potential
   benefits, the risk of giving up some privacy seems insignificant, he
   says. "If I am diagnosed with a rare cancer, I will think for two
   minutes, and then I will agree that giving up my privacy is
   worthwhile."

   Some observers expect even greater benefits from user-generated health
   sites in future. Patients who live with chronic diseases such as
   epilepsy often know more about them than their doctors, contends
   Daniel Hoch, a professor at Harvard Medical School who helped to found
   BrainTalk. Many doctors, he says, "don't get the wisdom of crowds."
   But he thinks the combined knowledge of a crowd of his patients would
   be far greater than his own. A wiki capturing the knowledge of, say,
   300 epileptics could be invaluable not only to others with epilepsy,
   but also to the medical professionals who care for them. Their
   aggregated understanding, he says, "would be helpful to all health
   care."


                                                                       PA

                                     PA

   O Tempora! O Mores! 

   DEMONSTRATORS outside Parliament rarely wear togas and brandish
   placards written in classical Greek. They did this week. The reason
   was a decision by education bureaucrats to drop a national history
   exam for 18-year-olds. If the protest naught avails, ancient history
   will no longer be taught in English schools, for the first time since
   the original Dark Ages.

   The decision to axe the A-level was taken hurriedly and in secret,
   without consulting the schools that teach ancient history or the
   universities that like it. And it comes at a time when the decline in
   classics in schools has reversed. A recent book on Latin grammar,
   "Amo, Amas, Amat", became a surprise best-seller. The number of state
   schools offering basic Latin has risen from 200 in 2003 to 459 today.
   Though some of the Thucydides-loving demonstrators were from elite
   private schools, others were from grungy further-education colleges.

   As they waited for Boris Johnson, the Tory education spokesman, to
   address them (in Latin), the pupil-protesters chanted "Long live
   Athens! Down with Sparta". Fine sentiments. But remember what happened
   to Athens.


   After a tumultuous year, there may be a decisive shift in British
   politics in 2008



   IN SOME parts of the world iconic statues are toppled, barricades
   erected or the bodies of autocrats strung up in piazzas. In British
   politics, "tipping points"--moments when an outbreak of sentiment
   becomes an epidemic, a trend becomes destiny and a leader's fate is
   sealed--tend to be visible only at a distance. That, of course, does
   not stop people spotting them immediately.

   In the last few months of 2007, much of the political class has
   confidently predicted the end of Labour's long imperium--though there
   is disagreement over which of the superabundant governmental
   calamities represented the decisive moment. The run on Northern Rock?
   The "bottled" non-election? The weird funding scandal (unlikely, since
   most people already assume that politicians are more crooked than they
   actually are)? Or "Discgate", about which senior Conservatives are so
   cock-a-hoop that they jokingly offered to pay for the letters sent to
   the 7m families whose details were lost in the post?

   In fact, British politics may well have tipped in 2007. But in
   hindsight it may turn out to have done so in a different, subtler,
   perhaps more important way.

   For future historians, the year's most salient event will probably be
   neither the bounce and fall of Gordon Brown, nor the summer fall and
   autumnal second coming of David Cameron, the Tory leader. It will be
   the descent of the final curtain (aeons ago, it already seems) on the
   great actor-prime minister, Tony Blair. One of Mr Blair's legacies,
   energetically embraced by Mr Cameron, is a politics of emulation, in
   which the distinction between the two big parties is more thespian and
   less ideological than it was before he commandeered the Labour Party.
   In this Mr Blair was himself responding to more fundamental shifts in
   British society: the decline of the old industrial economy, the spread
   and sharpening of aspiration, and the resulting obsolescence of
   political competition based on class interests.

   The flip side of Mr Blair's electoral success--two landslide victories
   and one limping, post-Iraq win--is the waning of traditional party
   allegiances. For Mr Brown, Mr Cameron and future Tory and Labour
   leaders, that means the old blocks of voters that their parties have
   been able to rely on (roughly a third of the country in both cases)
   are shrinking. The prejudices that once inhibited voters from
   switching directly between the main parties are evaporating too.
   Moreover, voters are not only more floaty than they once were: there
   are also fewer of them. British politicians--like those in other
   advanced democracies--face the awkward dual challenges of fickleness
   and indifference. Sceptical of the impact that mere national
   government has on their lives, growing minorities are declining to
   vote altogether (though the French election suggests that some
   contests are galvanising enough to arrest that trend); other voters
   are deserting mainstream parties for single-issue alternatives.

   The real import of the past year's political volatility may lie not in
   who is up and down at the end of it, but in the volatility itself. The
   polls, which now show the Tories sailing above 40%--closing on the
   numbers they need to win an outright majority at the next
   election--have been too erratic to foretell the outcome reliably;
   earlier in 2007 they seemed to presage a hung parliament, and then the
   final extinction of Conservatism. Instead they may suggest that the
   year of Mr Blair's exit marked the start of a new epoch of fluid,
   yo-yoing, 21st-century politics.

   So the answer to the parlour-game question, about which of Mr Brown's
   2007 mishaps was decisive, is: none of them. Still, for all the
   fluidity, that more parochial tipping point--the one that seals Mr
   Brown's fate--may come during 2008.

   Even in a newly unstable political era, there will be times when
   reputations dip too low to be recovered, or when a party's momentum
   becomes, in the short term, almost impossible to stop. Mr Brown may
   well wait as long as he can, until 2010, to go to the country; but it
   is nevertheless likely that 2008 will reveal whether his current slump
   is remediable (as slumps can be), and whether Mr Cameron's own bounce
   is to flatten (like those of other recent Tory leaders).

   An Englishman's home, a Scotsman's fate

   The impact made by Nick Clegg, the newly anointed energetic leader of
   the Liberal Democrats, will affect both men's prospects. So will three
   other, related variables. The first and most straightforward is
   geographic. To win an election, the Tories need to start doing better
   in some suburban bits of the Midlands, Yorkshire and Lancashire that
   embraced Margaret Thatcher but that Mr Cameron has so far failed to
   seduce. The worry for him is that the tactics and pledges that have
   strengthened Tory support in the south-east will flop, or even
   backfire, farther north.

   The second factor is atmospheric. At the moment many voters are
   looking resentfully at Labour's record in office through the
   refractive lens of recent debacles. Will that distaste harden into a
   settled conviction that Mr Brown's number is up? Government is in part
   the business of losing friends and disappointing people, and by the
   end of 2008 it may be clear whether Labour has simply lost and
   disappointed too many to win a fourth term. Mr Cameron, meanwhile,
   needs to allay residual fears about his callowness, and doubts about
   the personality of his party.

   The third factor, stupid, is the economy. There are a lot of crazily
   leveraged homeowners in Britain; if the economic slowdown and the
   credit crunch make their mortgages a lot tougher to service, Mr Brown
   may be tipped vertiginously towards eventual defeat. Until a few
   months ago, he could feasibly have hoped that economic troubles could
   be politically useful to him, with his undeniable experience and
   reputed competence. Not any more. The long-term prospects of all three
   parties depend on how they adapt to the new, fragmented, fickle
   politics. But in 2008, old-fashioned concerns may predominate.


   Migration has once again become a touchy political issue

   UNTIL recently, politicians who inveighed against immigration could
   expect support from an angry minority of voters in many Western
   countries. Some, like Australia's Pauline Hanson, won moments in the
   limelight and then faded away. Others got closer to political power:
   in France in 2002 the anti-immigrant Jean-Marie Le Pen reached the
   run-off stage of the presidential election; Denmark's centre-right
   government has been kept in office with support from an anti-migrant
   party; and in Austria in 2000 Jrg Haider's far-right party joined a
   coalition government. On each occasion this was controversial, but
   could be explained as a quirk of the electoral system, not a
   reflection of widespread anti-migrant sentiment.

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

                                                          Woolly thinking

   Today, however, hostility to immigration is becoming mainstream.
   Britain's prime minister, Gordon Brown, whose Labour government has
   allowed remarkably high rates of immigration for years, recently
   called for "British jobs for British workers", a meaningless slogan
   previously used by the far-right National Front. The opposition
   Conservatives' leader, David Cameron, says he wants to see
   "substantially lower" immigration. Both government and opposition say
   they will keep out workers from Bulgaria and Romania, along with those
   from any other new EU members, for as long as possible.

   In France Nicolas Sarkozy campaigned for the presidency in 2007
   sounding as hostile to foreigners as Mr Le Pen, and swept to office.
   He is now proposing immigration policies that have liberals quivering
   with anger. Most controversially, a new law passed in November will
   allow DNA testing of immigrants' relatives who apply to come to France
   under a family reunification programme.

   Italian politicians whipped up violence against migrants after the
   death of a woman in Rome last October, allegedly at the hands of a
   Romanian Roma (gypsy). Officials ordered the expulsion of Romanians
   with criminal records and set about bulldozing migrants' camps. Local
   thugs took that as a cue to beat up foreigners in the streets.

   In countries where proportional representation gives a say to small
   parties, support for anti-immigrant populists has gradually risen. The
   second-largest grouping in Norway's parliament is the misnamed
   Progress Party, which wants to discourage the entry of
   "far-foreigners" (migrants from beyond the Nordic region, especially
   dark-skinned ones). The right-of-centre People's Party in Switzerland,
   which had campaigned with a crude poster showing white sheep booting
   out a black one, got 29% of the vote in elections last October.

   Across the Atlantic, mainstream candidates for the 2008 presidential
   elections are lining up to talk tough about border controls and
   cracking down on illegal migrants. The dramatic collapse of an
   immigration-reform bill in the Senate in June, despite the support of
   President George Bush and the leaders of both the Democrats and
   Republicans in both houses of Congress, signalled that many ordinary
   voters are troubled by high rates of immigration. A coalition of radio
   hosts and internet activists arranged for opponents of reform to send
   1.5m faxes to senators and congressmen in June.

   Roy Beck, who heads NumbersUSA, one of the internet activist groups,
   says that membership of his organisation has grown from just 3,000
   active members in 2001 to more than 490,000 today. He also claims an
   e-mail list of 1.6m sympathisers from across the political spectrum.
   Some of the anxiety may be explained by worries about economics,
   language, crime and a general fear of the outside world raised by
   terrorism. More important, he suggests, is anger about the presence in
   the country of perhaps 12m illegal immigrants. He wants to see the
   number reduced by things like deportation, stronger fences and fines
   for employers who use illegal labour.

   The camel's nose

   Opponents condemned the Senate reform bill as an amnesty: "It teaches
   aliens that all they have to do is get in and wait. It is letting the
   camel's nose into the tent, the rest follows," says Mr Beck. But the
   bill would not have been a soft option. It envisaged higher spending
   on border defences and an obstacle course on the way to legal
   residence. Applicants for legal status would have had to pay $5,000
   and return home to await a decision. Yet the bill damaged the
   presidential chances of John McCain, a Republican senator who supports
   reform.

   Immigration is likely to prove a divisive factor in some states in the
   2008 presidential election. Republican strategists think voters are
   especially troubled by migration where there have been big new
   inflows, for example in the south-east (see map). Democrats are
   divided. Some are anxious not to alienate their traditional and
   growing support among Latinos and new migrant voters who might help to
   swing states such as New Mexico, Utah, Nevada and Arizona. But others
   want to get tough in places like Virginia, a formerly solid Republican
   stronghold that might be up for grabs, where rapid immigration has
   provoked anger. For Mr Beck this is an opportunity to push Democrats
   to take a harder line on immigrants, just as they have done in other
   policy areas: "To win competitive elections, Democrats now often
   oppose gun control," he says. "I want immigration to be an issue like
   guns."

   Perhaps the surprise is not that American voters are now reacting to
   high immigration, but that it has taken them so long. The last time
   the share of foreigners in America's population was anything like as
   high as now, in 1913 (when it was 15%, including illegals), the public
   demanded, and eventually got, tough limits on migration that slowed
   the inflow for decades. Nearly a century on, a similar dramatic
   clampdown seems unlikely, but hostility could slow the flow of legal
   migration, and greater efforts will be made to crack down on
   undocumented migrants.

   Yet public hostility to migration should not be overstated. In Spain
   and Greece, for example, natives seem relatively at ease with a big
   influx, at least as long as their economies are doing well. For some
   analysts the backlash against immigration is part of a wider response
   from hard-up activists who feel that elites do not properly represent
   their interests. But many people in host countries also see the gains
   from migration--and indeed some of them try it out for themselves.
   Some 5.5m British nationals, for example, currently live abroad, many
   in Spain, Australia and Greece. That amounts to nearly a tenth of the
   population back home, putting Britain on a par with Mexico as an
   exporter of people.


   The Bank of England stands firm, but cuts are on the way


   LIKE some poltergeist, the financial crisis keeps on thumping
   confidence just as it seems about to return. This week there was much
   alarm when Mervyn King, governor of the Bank of England, said it would
   take several more months before banks revealed all the losses they
   have incurred and took the necessary action to deal with them. His
   warning followed significant declines in the price of British bank
   shares. On top of all that, the world oil price has continued to soar,
   pushing the average price of petrol up to 1 ($2.10) a litre.

   Yet on November 8th the central bank's monetary-policy committee once
   again decided to keep the base rate at 5.75%--the level it has been at
   since July. The main reason for the decision was the continuing
   resilience of the British economy. The latest figures for GDP show no
   sign of the recent financial turmoil. National output grew in the year
   to the third quarter by 3.3%, the fastest increase for three years and
   well above the underlying growth rate of around 2.5-2.75%.

   The recent upswing has been boosted by a sharp recovery in business
   investment but it also owes much to the fact that consumers are still
   in fine fettle. Retail-sales growth has picked up, reaching 5.2% in
   the third quarter compared with the same period in 2006. One reason is
   that the housing market, although showing some signs of weakness, has
   remained sprightlier than expected. Though house prices fell by 0.5%
   in October, according to HBOS, a bank, they rose by 1.1%, on figures
   from the Nationwide Building Society.

   While GDP growth has remained buoyant, the rate-setters have been
   reluctant to ease policy. After all, it wasn't that long ago that Mr
   King had to write a public letter explaining an inflationary
   overshoot. Inflation has since subsided to a level below the
   government's target, but the bank worries that it may rebound as an
   economy with little spare capacity runs at full tilt. And although
   sterling has strengthened markedly against the dollar, reaching $2.10
   on November 7th, its overall trade-weighted value has slipped by
   around 2% in the past three months, which will add to inflationary
   pressure.

   Yet most in the City think the bank will cut rates before long. In a
   sign that the economy is now starting to slow, manufacturing output
   fell by 0.6% from August to September. More worrying still was a
   downbeat report from the services sector, which dwarfs manufacturing
   as a share of the economy. The purchasing managers' survey reported a
   pronounced slowdown in activity in October, bringing it down to its
   lowest level since May 2003.

   These declines are consistent with the first impact of the feared
   credit crunch, as banks raise their lending rates and become more
   reluctant to make loans. And since the financial malaise is not
   confined to Britain, the economy will be hurt by slowing exports.
   Prospects for growth in America and the euro area are being scaled
   back.

   Britain's economy will also take a hit as the City suffers from the
   slowdown in international financial activity. Business investment too
   is likely to slacken in the months to come, partly because the overall
   economic outlook has darkened and partly as a consequence of tighter
   credit.

   The main worry, however, is that consumers will finally pull in their
   horns. The recent strength of household spending (see chart) is a
   minor miracle given that disposable income has been creeping ahead at
   its slowest rate since 1982. A drop in saving made this possible, but
   consumers are now likely to respond to tighter credit and slowing
   house prices by rebuilding their finances and curbing their spending.

   So although Britain's central bank has yet to follow America's in
   cutting interest rates in response to the credit crunch, this seems
   only a matter of timing. The bank will set out new projections for
   growth on November 14th, when it publishes its quarterly Inflation
   Report. It will almost certainly signal that monetary easing is on the
   way to counter what otherwise might be too sharp an economic slowdown.


   As the NHS turns 60, politicians fight to blow out the candles 


   NO SOONER had the new year begun than the parties grabbed scalpels and
   started scrapping for advantage in the operating theatre. In a message
   to health-service staff, Gordon Brown said this would be "the year in
   which we demonstrate beyond a doubt that the NHS is as vital for our
   next 60 years as it was for our last". Since Labour founded the health
   service in 1948--an act opposed then by the Tories--the prime
   minister's letter was pure politics. For his part, David Cameron, the
   Conservative leader, proclaimed an audacious ambition for the Tories
   "to replace Labour as the party of the NHS" in 2008.

   The intense political focus on the health service springs from
   continuing public worries about its condition. Over the past decade,
   it has generally been rated the most important issue facing Britain,
   according to Ipsos MORI, a pollster. More recently it has slipped
   behind immigration and crime, but over the past year it has usually
   come second or third.

   Even more important in the calculations of the two leaders, Labour no
   longer holds the commanding heights in health-care politics. For
   several years after winning power in 1997, Labour outscored the Tories
   by colossal margins as the party with the best policies for the NHS.
   This lead had collapsed by the time that Tony Blair stepped down as
   prime minister last summer. Beset by his own difficulties, Mr Brown is
   also in trouble. According to a recent poll by Populus, Labour is only
   narrowly ahead of the Tories as the best party for the NHS: 33% of
   respondents backed Labour, 29% preferred the Conservatives.

   The public's loss of faith in Labour is rooted in a sense of
   disappointment that too little has come of the record funding
   increases of the past decade. Although long waits for operations are a
   thing of the past and many more patients are being treated, other
   aspects of the health service are lacklustre. Cancer-survival rates
   are poor by international standards; family doctors no longer see
   patients on Saturdays; and hospital-acquired infections are
   frighteningly frequent. Fuelling public discontent, medical staff are
   astonishingly fed up, even though they have received a string of big
   pay increases.

   Mr Brown is now trying to respond to some of these concerns. A new
   five-year strategy to combat and prevent cancer was unveiled a month
   ago. The government is trying to get family doctors to extend their
   opening hours to evenings and weekends. Improving cleanliness and
   reducing hospital-acquired infections are now high in the NHS's
   objectives for the coming year.

   But Mr Brown being Mr Brown, he has also set up a longer-term review
   as a way to regain the political advantage on health that Labour had
   so carelessly squandered. Within days of becoming prime minister he
   asked Lord Darzi, a surgeon and junior health minister, to set out a
   ten-year vision for the NHS by June 2008. Conveniently, that will be
   just before the much-heralded 60th birthday on July 5th.

   Although an interim report rushed out in October was a damp squib, the
   review will serve two political purposes. First, it will enable Mr
   Brown to set out grand plans for the NHS so that he can make the most
   of the anniversary. Second, the review itself, headed by a prominent
   clinician, is designed to build bridges with medical staff, who have
   been disillusioned by Labour's itch to interfere.

   There are dangers for Mr Brown in his attempt to smarten up Labour's
   health-care looks. In his message on January 1st he held out the
   prospect of a new constitution for the health service, setting out
   "the rights and responsibilities associated with an entitlement to NHS
   care". But this got a dusty reception when it was interpreted as
   meaning a possible denial of care to patients (such as the superfat)
   who fail to do enough themselves to prevent illness.

   One reason why Mr Brown wants to enhance the preventive role of the
   NHS is that the funding bonanza ends in the spring. The prime minister
   has a fight on his hands. If his strategy to rebuild Labour's lead
   fails, it will be the Conservatives under Mr Cameron who will be
   celebrating the 60th anniversary of the NHS.


   The link between British and American politics is less obvious than it
   looks



   THE British attitude to America tends to oscillate between snootiness
   and awed self-deprecation. In the past few weeks, the political class
   has opted for a collective swoon. Like threadbare housewives dreaming
   of American nylons after the war, MPs and others have gazed covetously
   at the televised primaries, with their drama, diverse candidates and
   balloons. "There is an unpredictability, optimism and openness,"
   laments one columnist, "that many on this side of the Atlantic will
   envy." In short: we laughed, we cried, it was better than "The West
   Wing".

   The self-flagellation has often been accompanied by another humbling
   idea: that the outcome of the presidential election will influence,
   even somehow determine, the course of British politics too. "If you
   want to predict Britain's political future," advises another
   commentator, "just look at America." This starstruck fatalism is
   mistaken. American politics does not supply an automatic pattern or
   prophecy for Britain--and it never has.

   Never have been slaves

   The argument that it now does relies in part on an analogy between the
   two main Democratic contenders, on one hand, and Gordon Brown and
   David Cameron, the Tory leader, on the other. There is something to
   it: like Hillary Clinton, the prime minister is a kind of political
   dynast, having inherited his premiership from his long-term political
   partner; his pitch, like hers, rests on his avowed experience. The
   other, slightly less convincing part of the analogy sees Mr Cameron,
   with his relative youth, relatively gifted oratory and intermittent
   hope-mongering, as a sort of Etonian Obama. Mr Cameron encouraged the
   comparison before New Hampshire; since then he has been enthusiastic
   about John McCain and Mrs Clinton too.

   The parallel is superficially plausible because post-war American and
   British politics have indeed tended to mirror each other. Bill Clinton
   and Tony Blair; Reagan and Margaret Thatcher; before them, Eisenhower
   and Macmillan, and JFK and Wilson: the two countries' political cycles
   have often overlapped, and like-minded leaders (albeit less schmaltzy
   in Britain) have coincided. There is a longstanding transatlantic
   trade in tactics and policy ideas, and in consultants, pollsters and
   other political mountebanks. Mr Brown and his fellow New Labourites
   are known to have studied Mr Clinton's victorious 1992 campaign; but
   the phenomenon goes back at least to the influence of Nixon's 1968
   advertising on the Tories. (It is not exclusively west-to-east:
   witness the Tory-influenced Republican attacks on Mr Clinton in 1992,
   and, maybe, the speech his wife made on a John Major-esque soapbox in
   New Hampshire.)

   But the relationship is not--as some comment implies--a causal one. Mr
   Clinton's rise did not cause Mr Blair's; Mrs Thatcher's election did
   not determine Reagan's. Rather, both sets of leaders emerged from
   political circumstances (the cold war and its end, economic
   turbulence) that were themselves similar. Quite apart from the
   doubtful idea that in Britain posh is the new black, the main reason
   the latest analogies don't work is that, socially and politically,
   Britain and America have diverged.

   To simplify, Britain has not had George Bush. The issues dominating
   the primaries--how to get out of Iraq; how to revive the country's
   reputation; how to govern less divisively--don't resonate in the same
   way in Britain. The underlying social rifts--between religious and
   secular voters, and over the culture wars that began in the 1960s--do
   not apply. The '60s happened in Britain too, but most people were
   inside having a cup of tea.

   So, perhaps temporarily, British and American politics have decoupled.
   Insofar as there is a superficial resemblance, it may be because
   American parties face imperatives of a kind that British ones have
   already confronted. As the enthusiasm of some Conservatives (the
   "Obamacons") for Mr Obama suggests, the old correspondence between the
   Tories and the Republicans has broken down--but it seems likely that
   the Republican Party, as a number of its members are already urging,
   will have to embrace environmentalism and cuddly economics as the
   Tories were forced to. Look closely at the Democrats, meanwhile, and
   they seem to be promising more or less what Labour has been offering:
   capitalism with a more human face, better health care and so on. A
   facetious observer might describe Mr Brown as the Scottish Obama--or
   Mr Obama as "the Black Gordon".

   As for the idea that Britain could use more of that American drama: it
   is true that more town-hall meetings and debates among leaders, and
   open "primaries" in constituencies, would enliven elections. But the
   reality is that Britain's parliamentary system, in which voters face
   narrower choices, can never replicate the thrills and surprises of
   presidential campaigns.

   However, another complaint made by the starstruck--that British
   politicians are boringly homogeneous--is unfair. Britain's history,
   like its political system, is different from America's: in particular,
   race is not the schismatic issue in Britain that slavery and
   segregation make it in America. But class plays something like the
   same historical role--and from a class perspective, Britain's recent
   leaders have been impressively eclectic. Mr Major's father was a
   circus artist; Lady Thatcher (who, to remind, is also a woman) was the
   daughter of a shopkeeper. Mr Cameron is the poshest leader the Tories
   have dared to pick for more than 40 years, so far has anti-toff
   prejudice (see Etonian references above) replaced the old upper-crust
   hegemony. Meanwhile another minority--Mr Brown's Scots--is now as
   over-represented in government as the toffs once were.

   So, Bagehot submits, Britain has had its quiet equivalents of the
   Mormon, Evangelist, war hero, woman and black candidates who are
   currently on tour in America. But then, as American visitors may have
   noticed, occasional jingoistic spasms such as this one are as
   characteristic of the British as self-deprecation.


   Why teenagers are losing out to younger viewers

                                                                      BBC

                                    BBC


   FOR fans, it is the biggest scandal since Gonch Gardner made off with
   Mr Bronson's toupee at the swimming pool. "Grange Hill", a BBC
   children's television drama about an inner-city school and its raucous
   pupils, is getting a makeover as it celebrates its 30th anniversary
   this year. Formerly stuffed with edgy teenage storylines--drugs,
   gangs, pregnancy and so on--the next series will instead follow a
   younger cast, pitching more innocent plotlines to an audience of
   under-12s. Blasphemy, according to the programme's creator, Phil
   Redmond, who says it would be better for the series to "hang up its
   mortar board".

   The squeezing out of original programming for teenage viewers is one
   unexpected early consequence of the arrival of multi-channel digital
   television. Children are among the most eager adopters of digital TV,
   and now spend 82% of their viewing time on specialist digital channels
   rather than the old analogue five. Their parents are happy to indulge
   them: 90% of households with children have multi-channel television,
   against 76% of childless homes. More channels have meant lots more
   choice: some 113,000 hours of children's programmes were broadcast in
   2006, compared with 20,000 in 1998.

   But there is a catch: nearly all of this is either imported or
   repeated. By 2006 only 1% of children's broadcasting consisted of
   original material made in Britain. Increased competition for viewers
   from the new channels, as well as bans on advertising junk food during
   children's shows, has made it unprofitable to commission expensive new
   children's programmes. Britain's main commercial broadcasters have
   halved their investment in children's shows since 1998.

   Pre-schoolers are getting the lion's share of what is left, partly
   because they are more likely to watch with their parents, whom
   advertisers will pay more to reach. The BBC, which is funded by a tax
   on households with televisions, has managed to increase its spending
   on children's programmes--yet it too seems to be focusing on younger
   kids. Its children's service, which used to cater for under-16s, was
   redefined in 2006 to attract under-12s away from competitors such as
   Disney and Nickelodeon. Programmes for older children, such as "Grange
   Hill", are having to soften their content accordingly. A new
   teenagers' brand, BBC Switch, was launched in October, but its output
   is slim and mainly on the web, where Beeb bosses reckon teenagers now
   lurk. The television-minded among the over-12s are increasingly left
   to watch adult-oriented programmes or imports for children.

   Does it matter if young people come to consume almost exclusively
   television programmes that are made abroad? It might. "Grange Hill"
   and its ilk tackle awkward subjects that foreign series tend to shy
   away from, and in a British context that makes them more real to
   British children. And television helps to mould national identity.
   Most Britons under 40 can remember "Grange Hill" teachers as vividly
   as their own, and in some circles few things garner more respect than
   a "Blue Peter" badge. (The Economist's own [4]Bagehot has one, though
   he is too modest to wear it.) Finally, exporting programmes is a form
   of soft power. Big Bird is more famous than Condoleezza Rice;
   Britain's best ambassadors could well be the Teletubbies.


                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images

   Despite the summer's plagues, farming looks surprisingly healthy

   GORDON BROWN has not been short of crises since becoming prime
   minister, with everything from incompetent terrorist plots to
   record-breaking floods to contend with. The most recent began on
   August 3rd, when cows at a farm near Guildford, in southern England,
   tested positive for foot-and-mouth disease, a contagious and
   debilitating sickness that mainly affects cloven-hooved animals.

   Britons, an urban people, do not as a rule know much about the
   ailments of livestock, but foot-and-mouth is an exception. The
   previous outbreak, in 2001, was disastrous. Government inaction
   allowed the disease to spread so far that, when steps were at last
   taken to halt it, large swathes of the country had to be closed off.
   The sheer quantity of animal corpses, slaughtered to halt the spread
   of the disease, meant that the army had to help with their disposal
   atop vast, smoking pyres. The total cost, including compensation, was
   eventually put at around 8 billion ($16.2 billion, at today's
   exchange rates).

   This time things look very different. As The Economist went to press,
   the infection seemed confined to two farms in Surrey, with a third
   being tested. The confusion that helped the 2001 crisis to spiral out
   of control was absent. The Department for Environment, Food and Rural
   Affairs (successor to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food,
   which, along with the cows, did not survive the previous outbreak)
   quarantined the farms immediately. Sick animals were culled, livestock
   movements were banned (though later relaxed) and exports halted. Mr
   Brown cut short his holiday to convene the government's snazzily-named
   COBRA emergency committee. Even the European Union praised the
   government's promptness.

   The working hypothesis is that the virus escaped from a nearby
   biological laboratory, where it is used in research and in the
   manufacture of vaccines (see [3]article). The strain found in the
   Surrey cows is an unusual one, and matches exactly a variant used at
   the laboratory.

   Although the outbreak seems to have been contained, it has caused
   plenty of trouble for British livestock farmers. With animal movements
   banned, the meat business is at a standstill. Trade shows and farmers'
   markets are empty; only abattoirs have reopened. The English Beef and
   Lamb Executive reckons the export ban--which will be lifted three
   months after the last case of the disease is confirmed--is costing the
   industry 10m a week.

   The foot-and-mouth outbreak is the latest in a series of
   well-publicised setbacks for farmers. Chaos last summer at the Rural
   Payments Agency, charged with distributing 3 billion of European
   agricultural subsidies, prevented thousands from receiving their cash.
   This year's flooding has drowned crops and spoiled harvests: officials
   reckon that up to a third of Britain's pea crop was ruined, and potato
   and broccoli harvests have suffered too. Even the public has turned
   against farmers, opposing a call by the National Farmers' Union (NFU)
   for a cull of badgers which, the NFU says, transmit tuberculosis to
   cattle.

   Yet despite this dolorous litany, farmers have been doing fairly well
   in recent years. Agriculture is, notoriously, a boom-and-bust
   industry, and the general trend over the past few decades has
   certainly been downwards. A boom in the mid-90s, fuelled by a happy
   alignment of weak sterling (which boosted the value of subsidies from
   the EU and helped exports) and high commodity prices, ended abruptly
   as the pound recovered and BSE, another cattle disease, flared up. But
   farm incomes today are 59% up from their recent nadir in 2000, and
   they rose by around 7% last year. Officials were reckoning recently
   that they would keep rising for several years.

   Those predictions were made before the floods and the appearance of
   foot-and-mouth disease, but there are, nevertheless, good reasons for
   optimism. British agriculture is resilient. Average farm incomes grew
   nicely in 2001, despite the severity of the foot-and-mouth outbreak,
   and that is without counting the enormous 1.1 billion in compensation
   (equal to around half the industry's total income that year) that the
   powerful NFU managed to get for those affected. Indeed, for all the
   wailing, the brunt of the cost was borne not by farmers but by other
   rural businesses, such as pubs and hotels, which were not compensated
   for trade lost while the countryside was closed to the public.

   Despite recent blows, farming is in reasonably good shape these days.
   That is partly down to tight supply in the world market, says Carmen
   Suarez, chief economist at the NFU, citing the drought in Australia,
   which is a big agricultural producer. Others point to America's
   new-found enthusiasm for biofuels, which is diverting land from food
   production to fuel-making. Demand is rising, too, thanks to rapidly
   growing incomes in India and other countries in Asia: as people get
   richer, they consume more animal-based protein, which means either
   meat or milk products.

   The upshot has been a boom in the prices of agricultural commodities,
   with dairy products rising as much as 60% since the start of this year
   and wheat at an 11-year high. Commodity prices take several months to
   feed through to farmers themselves, admits Sean Rickard, a lecturer at
   the Cranfield School of Management, but "if you combine biofuel
   production with growth in the Far East, there's every reason to
   believe that agricultural markets will be tight for quite some time."

   Of course, averages disguise as much as they reveal, and news of high
   food prices will be scant consolation to those farmers worst hit by
   flooding or foot-and-mouth. But even here there is a silver lining.
   "Income is only one measure of prosperity," says Mr Rickard. "You've
   got to consider asset wealth as well." Agricultural land prices are
   rising fast, and have risen by around 50% since 2003, thanks to
   confidence in the industry's future and to rich-but-disillusioned City
   slickers looking for a slice of rural idyll to retire to, or at least
   to spend their weekends in. Foreigners are taking an interest too,
   with farmers from other parts of Europe attracted by prices lower than
   those at home. For any British farmer thinking of selling up, now
   looks like a tempting time.


   Teenage gangs are deadly but surprisingly flimsy

   TEXTING someone else's girlfriend, gatecrashing a party, hailing the
   wrong person in the street: these innocuous offences are all said to
   have provided teenagers with motives for murder. Four fatal stabbings
   and one shooting shocked London this week, while in Manchester a
   19-year-old was jailed for blasting a youth in a trivial row. A
   recurring factor, besides senselessness, was gang membership.

                                               London Police Press Bureau
                                               London Police Press Bureau

                                 Martin Dinnegan: killed, and for nothing

   How many young people belong to gangs? When the Home Office last
   counted in 2004, it found that 6% of 10-to-19-year-olds belonged to a
   "delinquent youth group". Membership was highest among those aged 14
   and 15, of whom 12% were signed up. But most members were tame. The
   Home Office's understanding of delinquency includes smoking cannabis
   and "frightening people", which some teenagers do without trying.
   Fewer than a third of them were frequent offenders, and only one in
   eight had carried a knife. Gunmen numbered fewer than one in 100.

   Nonetheless, flares of sickening violence are making people wonder how
   prolific this mad, bad minority must be. Much teenage crime slips
   under the radar because victims under 16 are ignored by the British
   Crime Survey (BCS), the government's favoured index. But police
   figures unearthed by the Tories show that 29% of mugging victims last
   year were 11-to-16-year-olds. Some 40% of the alleged perpetrators
   were themselves under 16. And some say the BCS underestimates violent
   crime--by 45%, according to a report on June 26th from Civitas, a
   think-tank.

   Gangs are not the cause of this youth offending, argues Enver Solomon
   of King's College, London. "There's some evidence that young people
   will act with another when approaching someone to pinch their iPod.
   But it's usually in ones and twos, not packs," he says. And some child
   "robbers" are just old-fashioned bullies, he points out: the
   difference now is that they nick mobile phones, not sweets.

   Bullying may be as far as many young louts go. But gang membership
   exposes them to disproportionate risks. "In a gang of 30 you might
   have one or two who are particularly hard or a bit crazy, who might
   use firearms or do a series of robberies," says Robert Ralphs of
   Manchester University, who has interviewed gunmen as young as 14. Most
   members may only deal a little cannabis, but their association with
   the hard cases makes them targets for rival gangs looking to settle
   scores.

   The consequence is that even minor players get armed. Mum's kitchen is
   a good starting point. But even firearms are within reach. New
   handguns, smuggled from Europe by car or in the post, are scarce and
   cost up to 500 ($1,000). But once fired they are a liability that
   older gangsters gratefully offload to teenagers for as little as 50.
   Police seizures suggest that more than half the guns on the streets
   are converted (and dangerous) replicas, a fact to which many younger
   gangsters seem oblivious.

   Control of the lucrative drug trade once made the danger seem
   worthwhile. Bristol's worst gang violence erupted in 2003, when
   Jamaican newcomers clashed with British Afro-Caribbeans for control of
   the local crack-cocaine market. Inspector Dave Bradnock, who helped to
   put the kingpins behind bars, says the old gangs are less active now.
   The "Aggi crew", once key players, are out of prison but seem to have
   hung up their weapons.

   Good policing is one reason, but drug dealing has also become less
   appealing. The relentless spread of drugs means in most cities it is
   impossible for one gang to control supply. Average prices have fallen:
   ecstasy tablets, for example, now cost less than a third what they did
   a decade ago. Mr Ralphs says the impact on gangs is obvious. Walking
   around with older ex-gang members is "like being out with David
   Beckham. People stop to shake their hand." The current generation
   makes a sorry contrast. "They say they make 1,000 a week, but they
   have to put their money together to buy a 20 bag of weed."

   It is hard to imagine anyone choosing such a wretched life. In fact,
   it seems few choose it at all. The Home Office found that most gangs
   had no leader and only a third even had a name (Bristol's "Aggi" crew,
   sweetly, is named after its founders' initials). The only common
   feature, mentioned by nine gang members out of ten, was a regular
   territory or meeting place. If this is a gang's only durable
   characteristic, breaking it up ought to be as simple as providing
   somewhere better for young people to hang around.

   Understanding the makeup of gangs also counts. A report last month
   from the Metropolitan Police Authority described community anti-gang
   efforts as "almost exclusively focused" on Afro-Caribbeans. Yet of 171
   current London gangs, only half were predominantly black, it pointed
   out. Martin Dinnegan, the white 14-year-old stabbed to death on June
   26th, was not everyone's idea of a typical gang victim. If people can
   realise his case is not so unusual, there may be fewer like him.


   Things are looking up for Britain's largest refugee community


   GLOOM had descended on the Lodge Lane Somali Women's Group. The
   landlord was selling up and the small Liverpool charity did not have
   enough money to buy him out. Eviction was two weeks away. Then in
   walked Mariam Gulaid, the group's treasurer, with a bulging carrier
   bag. Inside was 14,100 in cash, raised in a whirlwind door-to-door
   collection from local Somalis--"all women," she adds proudly. They are
   now on the way to buying the building.

   Little is known of Britain's Somalis. Even counting them is hard: the
   2001 census came up with a total of 43,691, but surveys since then
   suggest a number nearer 100,000. A century-old trickle of economic
   migrants became a flood of refugees in the 1980s, increasing in the
   late 1990s as tens of thousands fled violence. Somalis are now
   Britain's largest refugee group.

   News tends to focus on the criminal exploits of their young men, who
   have acquired a fearsome reputation in some quarters. Reporters might
   learn more from the women: they are finding their feet, and helping
   friends and family find theirs.

   "The men always say that women change when they come to England," says
   Mrs Gulaid, who estimates that at least half the women who come
   through her door are single parents, either through death or,
   increasingly, divorce. For women, life in Britain means support from
   the state and, through this, independence from their husbands, she
   says.

   Somali men seem to have a bumpier transition. Three-quarters have been
   to secondary school and one in ten has a degree, but language
   difficulties and unrecognised qualifications make unemployment the
   norm. Jill Rutter, a migration researcher at the Institute for Public
   Policy Research, a think-tank, estimates that 65-70% are out of work.
   All-night sessions chewing qat also play their part (see [4]article).

   Down the road from Lodge Lane is the Merseyside Somali Community
   Association, a men's club. The brightly painted building is more a
   social venue than the action-oriented women's centre, which means that
   some men sneak into the women's group for advice. Osman Mohamed, its
   chairman, says hysteria about terrorism and suspicion directed at
   groups of black youths have given Somali men a reputation they do not
   deserve.

   It is hard to sort fact from fiction, as crime figures are broken down
   only by broad racial categories. Somalis have made the news for a few
   ruthless crimes, including the murder of Sharon Beshenivsky, a rookie
   police officer, in 2005. But police say these villains are
   unrepresentative. Paul Hurst, a police constable who has patrolled
   Toxteth's Somali neighbourhood for 21 years (and visited Somalia on a
   police bursary), reckons a hard core of about 30 Somali youths are
   active in car crime and low-level drug-dealing in the city.
   Nonetheless, crime in Somali "Tocky", as Toxteth is known, is lower
   than in neighbouring Picton and Wavertree, and light-touch policing
   has kept the peace. A repeat of the bloody Toxteth riots of 1981, when
   local Afro-Caribbeans clashed with police, is unthinkable, everyone
   agrees.

   The outlook for young Somalis is brightening. Lack of English among
   newly arrived refugees has prevented progress at school: a 1999 study
   of students in Camden, north London, found that just 3% got five good
   GCSE qualifications, compared with 48% of all students (and 21% of
   refugee children). But as the number of asylum seekers has plummeted,
   achievement has soared: in 2005 24% of Somalis in Camden got their
   five good passes.

   The fall in new arrivals has also damped down clan tensions, often
   blamed for causing fractures in the community. The Information Centre
   about Asylum and Refugees, a research body, counts at least 100 Somali
   organisations in London. Now, Liverpool's various bodies have overcome
   their differences to form an umbrella group, which is badgering the
   council for a joint community centre.

   Image remains crucial, especially to elders who fear their community
   is unfairly smeared by impostors. Economic migrants from all over east
   Africa (some of them ethnic Somalis) claim to be from Somalia to boost
   their chances of gaining asylum: a favourite pastime of British
   Somalis is spotting the fakes. Hussain Osman, on trial for trying to
   blow up a London station in July 2005, is considered one of Britain's
   highest-profile Somalia-born refugees. He may be nothing of the sort.
   Italian police say he is Hamdi Issac, and Ethiopian.


   Should the stricken bank or the stricken taxpayer be salvaged?

   LIKE a man in intensive care, Northern Rock is hooked up to a
   life-supporting transfusion of taxpayers' cash. First extended by the
   Bank of England in mid-September, the loan was expected to stabilise
   the stricken lender and allow it to make a quick recovery (or a
   graceful exit under someone else's name) once the turmoil in global
   credit markets had eased. Not a chance. Eight weeks later, Northern
   Rock's vital signs are deteriorating fast and its debt to the state is
   mounting.

   The government is thought to have put in up to 23 billion ($48
   billion), and the sum is growing by 2 billion-3 billion a week as
   depositors continue to flee. At least 10 billion of the bank's 24
   billion in retail savings has already been withdrawn, some say, and
   Northern Rock is having little luck persuading banks to lend it new
   money as its existing loans come due. State support for Northern Rock
   already exceeds Britain's transport budget and could soon surpass the
   32 billion allocated to defence--a particular embarrassment for a
   government accused of under-equipping its soldiers in combat zones.

   But problems bigger than embarrassment loom. The authorities are
   desperate to regain their reputation as prudent custodian of the
   world's biggest international financial centre. The task is not helped
   by recurrent bouts of finger-pointing. In a radio interview on
   November 6th, Mervyn King, the governor of the Bank of England, seemed
   to blame Alistair Darling, the chancellor of the exchequer, for
   missing opportunities to avert the crisis.

   Three big questions now face the Treasury, which has taken the lead in
   sorting out the Northern Rock mess. The first is how to get taxpayers'
   money back, and quickly. Some believe that this would be most easily
   achieved by breaking up the bank and selling it off in bits. But this
   conflicts with a second, which is how to avoid destroying the bank and
   losing highly visible jobs in the north-east, one of England's poorer
   regions and, inconveniently, one filled with hitherto stalwart Labour
   voters. The third is whether either goal can be achieved without
   handing private-equity investors, in particular, a chance to make a
   bundle on the back of the government guarantee. Such an outcome would
   set the seal on the most ignominious episode in recent British
   banking.

   Saving jobs seems the likelier choice. Two of the three possible
   buyers to emerge so far are believed to want to keep Northern Rock's
   branch network. First in the field was J.C. Flowers, a private-equity
   group with a history of buying and turning around distressed banks.
   The firm has an impressive list of City grandees lined up to run the
   bank and (less illustriously) an ongoing court case in America that
   stems from its abandonment of an agreed deal to buy Sallie Mae, a
   government-guaranteed lender to students. Sir Richard Branson's Virgin
   Group, a second bidder, has a petite but innovative financial business
   and prudent plans to turn Northern Rock into a smaller, risk-averse
   mortgage bank. Cerberus, another private-equity firm, is keeping mum
   about its plans.

   None of the proposals sits well with the Treasury. All three groups
   are understood to have insisted the central bank promise to keep
   lending to Northern Rock, and at a rate lower than the penal one it is
   charging now. Some 25 billion-30 billion (including what the central
   bank has already put in) may be needed to keep the bank going, and
   none of the three is thought to have raised more than 15 billion.

   To break this logjam, Blackstone, a private-equity firm turned
   gamekeeper, was brought in on October 31st to advise Northern Rock
   under the Treasury's alert eye. Blackstone is thought to have
   contacted some 50 institutions, including French, Spanish, Indian and
   Chinese banks, to widen the pool of bidders.

   Blackstone is also approaching lenders to secure credit lines
   totalling some 25 billion, promising to improve Northern Rock's
   credit rating, if need be by cleaning up its balance sheet and selling
   less easily traded assets to specialist hedge funds. In theory this
   could allow the government to withdraw much of its support, but few
   believe it will get off lightly.

   At the punitive rate Northern Rock pays the Bank of England today, it
   cannot make a profit on any new mortgages and is losing money on many
   of its old ones. Its new lending is thought to have slumped to a few
   hundred million pounds a month, less than a quarter of the volume in
   the first half of the year. The longer it takes to reach a deal, the
   less there will be left to buy. A restructuring and sale may save
   Northern Rock from a lingering death, but any recovery is likely to be
   slow and painful.


   Telecommunications: The idea of sending information through the air in
   the form of flashes of light is being given a high-tech makeover

                                                                    Alamy

                                   Alamy

   WHEN most people switch on a desk lamp, they usually want a little
   extra illumination. But not John Goodey, an engineering student at
   Oxford University. When he flicks the switch and turns on his lamp, a
   sensor on his desk downloads music tracks digitally encoded within
   tiny flickers in the lamp's light. The music is then relayed through a
   pair of nearby speakers. This unusual set-up offers a glimpse of a
   future in which light, rather than radio waves, is used to send
   information. The concept, known as optical wireless or free-space
   optics (FSO), promises better security and higher data-transfer rates
   (up to 10 gigabits per second) than existing radio-based
   communications technologies, says Dominic O'Brien, a leading engineer
   in the field and Mr Goodey's research supervisor at Oxford.

   FSO is already used in a few niches: to connect networks in nearby
   offices without having to string cables between them, for example. But
   plans are afoot to extend the idea into a number of new areas. For
   example, the subtle flickering of car headlights and tail-lights could
   be used to transmit speed and braking information to other vehicles,
   to help prevent collisions. Traffic lights could alert cars when they
   are about to change, or broadcast the latest congestion update to
   waiting vehicles. In the home, FSO could be used together with
   interior lighting to provide extremely fast internet downloads. Since
   light does not travel through walls, there would be no need to worry
   about neighbours snooping on your e-mail, or piggybacking on your
   broadband connection.

   Futuristic though this sounds, FSO is by no means a new idea. Soldiers
   in ancient Greece used polished shields to send battle orders to each
   other over vast distances in the form of flashes of sunlight. More
   recently, so-called "heliographs" have been used to relay military
   signals in a similar way. And it is only in the past ten years that
   the British navy has phased out its use of Aldis lamps to convey Morse
   code signals from ship to ship. Yet just as this old analogue
   technology was being retired, its new digital counterpart was making
   its debut. In the past few years a small number of companies, such as
   Terabeam, LightPointe and Cablefree Solutions, began offering
   businesses point-to-point optical systems that could send data between
   buildings.

   These early optical systems were capable of sending information at a
   rate of hundreds of megabits per second (Mbps), but customers usually
   wanted only about 10Mbps, says Stephen Patrick of Cablefree. Back then
   the attraction was not speed but convenience, he says. Advocates of
   FSO like to say it has the speed of a fibre-optic link, and the
   convenience of a wireless link. It is easy to set up: simply hook up
   infra-red laser transceivers on top of two buildings and then align
   them. "The cost to install is very low," says Mr Patrick.

   There is no messing about with radio-spectrum licences or digging up
   roads, and FSO can also bypass prohibitive planning restrictions. In
   places where transmitters are not allowed on roofs, for example,
   indoor FSO transceivers can simply send and receive data through
   closed windows. FSO is also secure: the only way to intercept the
   signal is physically to intercept the beam.

   As a result, hundreds of businesses, hospitals and universities are
   already using FSO. City skylines are not criss-crossed with grids of
   laser beams because it is all done using invisible infra-red light,
   says Mr O'Brien. Today's technology can transmit data up to 4km (2.5
   miles) at speeds of 1-3 gigabits per second (Gbps).

   Telecoms operators are starting to take an interest in the technology
   as an alternative to the microwave-radio "backhaul" links that are
   used to link mobile-phone base-stations to operators' core networks.
   FSO's main drawback is that bad weather, such as rain or fog, can
   interrupt the signal. But Mr Patrick notes that microwave links are
   also prone to atmospheric interference. Provided FSO is set up over
   relatively short distances--say several hundred metres--it is a
   reliable technology, he says.

   There is no need to worry about bad weather when using FSO indoors, of
   course. But maintaining a line of sight can be a problem for a laptop
   that is being carried around within a home or office. One solution is
   to use a diffuse light source rather than a laser beam, says Mr
   O'Brien. Using the natural reflectivity of ceilings and walls, a
   transmitted infra-red signal can be received by any number of
   receivers within a room. But this approach reduces the pace at which
   information can be transferred. "Most of the light doesn't go where
   you want it to," says Mr O'Brien. Nor is it possible simply to crank
   up the power of the source beam, because infra-red light at high
   intensity can cause eye damage.

   So Mr O'Brien has been working on a ceiling-based system that tracks
   where a receiving device is, and then sends it a signal using several
   laser beams from a directional transmitter. He has built a prototype
   that runs at 300Mbps, nearly six times faster than today's typical
   Wi-Fi links and reckons that speeds of up to 10 Gbps are feasible.
   That is not to say that Wi-Fi is obsolete. Instead, the two
   technologies may end up being used together: Wi-Fi as the uplink, and
   FSO for the much faster downlink.

   The long-term hope is to transmit data using visible light emitted by
   indoor lighting. In Japan the Visible Light Communications Consortium,
   made up of industrial giants such as Sony, Toshiba and NEC, is
   pursuing just that goal. FSO is not possible with existing indoor
   lighting because incandescent bulbs cannot switch on and off fast
   enough. But that is not a problem for white light-emitting diodes
   (LEDs), which are expected to become far more widespread in the coming
   years, because they use less energy and are more versatile than
   incandescent bulbs. The combination of LEDs and FSOcould then be used
   to provide internet coverage throughout a home or office. Could it be
   lights out for radio networking?


   Transport: After a long gestation, ground-effect vehicles that fly on
   cushions of air could finally be ready for take-off

   WALK along the River Warnow, in northern Germany, and you may be lucky
   enough to spot a SeaFalcon, a sleek, white machine with two
   propellers, two wings and a distinctly un-birdlike tail. It looks like
   an aircraft. Which is what it is. Except, it isn't. It is a ship--at
   least in the eyes of the International Marine Organisation, which
   regulates such things. That matters, because ships are much more
   lightly regulated than aircraft.

   The SeaFalcon is really a ground-effect vehicle. It flies only over
   water and only two metres above that water. This means the air beneath
   its wings is compressed, giving it additional lift. In effect, it is
   floating on a cushion of air. That makes it far cheaper to run than a
   plane of equivalent size, while the fact that it is flying means it is
   far faster--at 80-100 knots--than a ship of any size. Its designer,
   Dieter Puls, thus hopes it will fill a niche for the rapid transport
   of people and light goods in parts of the world where land and sea
   exist in similar proportions.

   The theory of ground-effect vehicles goes back to the 1920s, when Carl
   Wieselsberger, a German physicist, described how the ground effect
   works. There was then a period of silence, followed by a false start.
   In the 1960s the Soviet armed forces thought that ground-effect
   vehicles would be ideal for shifting heavy kit around places like the
   Black Sea. Their prototypes did fly, but were never deployed in
   earnest--and their jet engines consumed huge amounts of fuel.

   This did, however, prove that the idea worked. And two German
   engineers, Mr Puls and Hanno Fischer (whose version is called Airfish
   8), have taken it up and made it work by using modern, composite
   materials for the airframes, and propellers rather than jets for
   propulsion. One reason the Soviet design was so thirsty is that the
   power needed to lift a ground-effect vehicle is far greater than that
   needed to sustain it in level flight. The Soviet design used heavy jet
   engines to deliver the power needed for take-off. But the SeaFalcon
   uses a hydrofoil to lift itself out of the water, and Airfish 8 uses
   what Mr Fischer calls a hoverwing--a system of pipes that takes air
   which has passed through the propeller and blasts it out under the
   craft during take-off.

   The next stage, of course, is to begin production in earnest--and that
   seems to be about to happen. Mr Puls says he has signed a deal with an
   Indonesian firm for an initial order of ten, while both he and Mr
   Fischer are in discussions with Wigetworks, a Singaporean company,
   with a view to starting production next year. South-East Asia, with
   its plethora of islands and high rate of economic growth is just the
   sort of place where ground-effect vehicles should do well.

   All of which sounds optimistic. But a note of caution is needed. For
   another sort of ground-effect vehicle was also expected to do well and
   ended up going nowhere. The hovercraft differed from the vehicles
   designed by Messrs Puls and Fischer in that it relied on creating its
   own cushion of air, rather than having one provided naturally. That
   meant it could go on land as well as sea--which was thought at the
   time (the 1950s) to be a winning combination. Sadly, it was not.
   Hovercraft have almost disappeared. But then, in the eyes of the
   regulators, they counted as aircraft.



   Toffs and spivs are quarrelling over the sport of kings

   FEW British institutions have proved as steadfast as racing, the sport
   of kings. Whereas the Royal Navy stopped handing out rum rations in
   1970, and the younger royals have moved away from family values and
   good taste, racing still clings to its oldest traditions.

   At Royal Ascot, Britain's most famous race meeting, men entering the
   royal enclosure wear full morning dress and ladies cover their
   shoulders and midriffs. Kate Fox, a social anthropologist, calls
   racing the "last bastion of old-fashioned chivalry", where women are
   treated with courtesy and even sozzled crowds have "exceptionally good
   manners".

   Away from the track, however, the relationship between the toffs who
   run racing and the bookmakers who pay its bills has taken a turn for
   the worse. They are at each others' throats over the question of how
   much bookies should pay to keep the horses in oats. Negotiations broke
   down late last year, forcing them to ask the government to decide,
   something that happens from time to time. This year the talks have
   become uncommonly uncivil because of a new twist: half the country's
   racecourses (including some of its biggest) have backed a new
   television service, Turf TV, set up to compete with the existing one
   owned by bookmakers. Its footage of lather-necked horses racing
   towards the finish line may cost bookmakers 50m a year more.

   Wrangling between the toffs and spivs dates back to at least the
   1930s, when gamblers first started to subsidise the track. Racing has
   always been unprofitable for most of its participants, not least
   owners and trainers, who are mainly in it for love, not money. Because
   the betting industry relies on the sport for its profits, the
   government has long forced bookies to cough up to subsidise racetracks
   and the racehorse owners.

   At first it did so by allowing bookies to take bets only at the track,
   where they were charged an entrance fee five times higher than the
   public one. And since 1961, when gambling away from the course was
   legalised, it has forced betting shops to pay a levy which currently
   stands at about a tenth of their gross profits from horseracing. This
   now yields a bit less than 100m a year, according to Deloitte, an
   accounting firm--or almost a quarter of racing's total revenues and
   most of its prize money. Even so, horse owners recoup less than a
   quarter of their operating costs, far less than in France, Japan and
   America, reckons Wray Vamplew, of Stirling University. About a tenth
   of British owners and trainers drop out of the sport each year.

   The current squabble is one in a series but it signals the possibility
   of far-reaching change. The government has long wanted to get rid of
   the levy, fretting that, were the matter taken to court, the transfer
   could be deemed illegal state aid. So spivs and toffs have been
   encouraged to find a commercial arrangement that doesn't involve state
   mediation. Letting racecourses charge for their own television feeds
   is not without problems: it introduces uncertainty and less popular
   racecourses may fail. Yet allowing the market to decide the sport's
   worth is a punt racecourses may have to take.




   Why the Liberal Democrats are the party of the future


   LIKE a big (but not that big) group of hostages, oscillating between
   hope of escape and fear, the mood of the Liberal Democrats at their
   conference in Brighton this week swung between gloom and elation. They
   were gloomy about their depressed poll ratings, and the erratic ones
   of their leader, Sir Menzies Campbell; they were intermittently elated
   by the glorious future predicted by their ideologues. "The tide of
   history is on our side!" they exhorted, and "The old politics are
   dead!" A lot of mean things can be and have been said about
   gentlemanly Sir Menzies and his party; but Bagehot proposes to pass
   over his lame jokes and calculating would-be heirs, the eccentric
   speeches and the sandals. Because the key thing about the Lib Dems is
   that they are almost certainly right. In two important ways, the tide
   of history and the evolving nature of politics are on their side--sort
   of.

   One of the mini-controversies of the conference was over Sir Menzies's
   avowed enthusiasm for "hammering" the rich. Both the enthusiasm and
   the controversy arise from the heterogeneous nature of Liberal
   Democrat voters: they are a tense alliance of disillusioned lefties
   and well-meaning patricians, genuine liberals and holders of ancestral
   grudges against the other two parties. To keep this ragtag coalition
   together, the Lib Dems need to "narrowcast"--for example, by
   signalling a more redistributive attitude to taxation to voters in the
   Midlands without frightening the horsey types in southern marginals.

   Narrowcasting is a tough trick, as David Cameron and his Conservative
   Party also learned recently, when they tried to allay misgivings among
   the Tory ultras without compromising their cuddly new centrist image.
   But it is increasingly a trick that all the main parties have to pull
   off--because the old politics are dying, as the Lib Dem ideologues
   insist.

   This realignment may be a less dramatic shift than the decline of the
   Liberals after the first world war, but it is happening. The
   traditional politics of left and right, at least defined in terms of
   class and economics, is obsolescent. For the time being, familiar
   issues such as health and education are still salient. Tribal party
   loyalties, based on old class identities, still obtain: there are
   millions of Britons, in ex-industrial northern towns and patriotic
   suburbs, for whom voting for anyone other than Labour or the Tories is
   more or less unthinkable. But, like religious identities, those bonds
   are weakening, as the economy that created them is transformed. New
   political axes will come to rival, if not entirely replace, the old
   economic one: liberty versus security, say, or liberty versus
   environmentalism. The result will be that, even more than Tony Blair
   in pursuit of his 1997 landslide, parties will need to yoke together
   disparate coalitions of dissimilar voters in order to win elections.

   Dream on

   The second way in which the future of politics will look Liberal
   Democrat is how parties go about the yoking. Beneath the headlines
   about hammering--and beyond the mini-scandal of Sir Menzies's
   ill-advised photo-opportunity with an organic toilet--the Lib Dems,
   and especially the impressive triumvirate of Nick Clegg, David Laws
   and Chris Huhne, actually have quite a lot of sensible policies. They
   have authentically liberal and considered things to say about prisons
   and immigration; on using the courts rather than extra-judicial powers
   to punish terrorists; on the environment; and on educating
   disadvantaged children. But the sad truth is that, aside from their
   distinctive stance on Iraq, their popularity and their policies are
   only loosely related.

   That is largely for reasons peculiar to them. Voters tend to take
   seriously only pledges that are likely to be implemented, which
   excludes those made by the Lib Dems. Many votes for them are really
   protests against their opponents: their recent poll doldrums have
   reflected Mr Cameron's early bounce, and latterly Gordon Brown's, more
   than their own performance. In these circumstances, as the worldlier
   Lib Dems admit, having policies is really a sort of irrational
   exuberance, mainly required to remind voters that they exist.

   Quite apart from this third-party predicament, though, policy is a
   decreasingly important factor in politics generally--certainly
   compared with the genuinely ideological clashes of the 1980s. Part of
   the explanation for that trend is that Labour and the Tories now agree
   about so much, even if they conceal their similarity by
   narcissistically inflating small differences. Mr Brown's omnivorous
   pilfering of everyone else's best ideas is blurring the distinction
   more than ever (which hurts the Lib Dems, since this coalescence has
   made grumpy Labour and Tory voters readier to switch straight to the
   other big party). Part of it is the influence of digital media on how
   political opinions are formed. That has made having a charismatic and
   ideally photogenic leader vital (which is why some people have been
   beastly about Sir Menzies). Policy itself is becoming the aroma of
   politics, rather than its substance--as it already is for the Lib
   Dems.

   In one respect, however, the Liberal Democrats are and will remain
   unique. Not only do their policies not determine their popularity:
   their popularity will not determine their chances of wielding power.
   For that they need a hung parliament after the next election, whenever
   it is; and for a hung parliament they need Labour to do badly. Since
   the Conservatives are second in most of Labour's marginal seats, that
   in turn depends mostly on the Tories doing better, rather than on the
   Lib Dems' own results. Unfortunately for them, probably only a reform
   of the voting system will alter that basic dependency--because even if
   the intellectual shape of politics changes, the institutional shape,
   based on the two great party machines, ruthless and adaptable, is
   likely to stay the same. The Lib Dems may have seen the political
   future, but that does not mean they will inherit it.


   Gun crime is leaving the big cities for smaller towns


   BILLY COX, aged 15, in his parents' flat; Michael Dosunmu, aged 15, in
   his bedroom; James Smartt-Ford, aged 16, at the local ice-rink: the
   lethal shootings of three south-London teenagers in less than a
   fortnight have startled the public and sent politicians scrambling for
   new initiatives. Tony Blair announced on February 18th that gunmen as
   young as 17 could soon face the automatic five-year penalty for
   illegally owning a gun that is currently reserved for those over 21. A
   "gun summit" with police and local leaders was scheduled for February
   22nd. David Cameron, the Tory leader, said he wanted to make dads
   stick around as role models by giving marriage a tax break.

   Is gun crime getting better or worse? Both, depending on what you look
   at. The government can boast of a recent dip in firearm offences (down
   6% in England and Wales in the 12 months to April 2006), but only if
   it includes toy airguns; remove those and the number goes up a
   fraction. And although firearm homicides hit a seven-year low last
   year, injuries more than quadrupled in the same period.

   The clearest and steadiest trend in all this is where gun crime is
   taking place: as the chart shows, guns seem to be moving out of the
   biggest cities and into their surrounding towns. Historically,
   firearms have been strongly concentrated in just three of 43 police
   districts in England and Wales: London, Greater Manchester and the
   West Midlands (which includes Birmingham). In the year to April 2002,
   less than a third of gun offences took place anywhere else. Last year
   almost half did.

   Gun crime is piling up on big cities' doorsteps. Last year London's
   Metropolitan Police dealt with 10% fewer gun crimes per head than
   three years earlier, but four of their five neighbouring forces saw
   increases. In Essex, where gun offences almost doubled in that period,
   police attribute it to an upsurge in armed robberies of vans carrying
   cash in transit. Criminal gangs have been driven out of the capital by
   the Met, they say: "When you get on top of a problem like this you
   don't suppress it, you disperse it."

   Keith Bristow, head of firearms crime at the Association of Chief
   Police Officers, believes drug-dealers are being similarly displaced.
   In an interview with the Times on February 19th he said that crack
   cocaine-dealers, along with their guns, were being forced out of
   cities by tougher policing and vicious competition.

   Yet the overall reduction in gun crime in big cities hides a more
   stubborn problem. The teenagers shot dead in London this month were
   not bank robbers; one killing seems to have been rooted in a
   text-messaging row. In some dark corners, firearms are morphing from
   the tools of the criminal trade into the accessories of teenaged
   gangs, to whom crime (usually low-level drug-running) may be secondary
   to the desire for companionship and security.

   While the Met has driven out organised gun crime, it has found such
   "disrespect" killings tougher to deal with. The Flying Squad, which
   fights "professional" crime in the capital, reported in 2004 that half
   its cases involved firearms. By last year this had fallen to
   one-fifth. In contrast Trident and Trafalgar, the police units that
   deal with shootings such as this month's crop (exclusively among
   blacks, in Trident's case), have not seen their caseload diminish in
   the past four years.

   Most worryingly, those who suffer from gun crimes are getting younger.
   In 2003 16% of the victims in Trident cases were less than 20 years
   old. Last year the proportion was twice as high.


   Computing: They may be powerful, but computers could still be easier
   to use. Might new forms of interface help?

   IT HAS been called a revolution, and rightly so. Over the past 25
   years computers have become a feature of everyday life in rich
   countries and, increasingly, in poor ones too. Today's machines are
   fast--a typical desktop now has ten times the number-crunching power
   of the fastest machine on earth in 1983--and widespread, given that
   the world's 3 billion or so mobile phones are, in effect, pocket
   computers. But although computers have become cheaper, more capable
   and more commonplace, they have made much less progress when it comes
   to ease of use. Their potential remains tantalisingly out of reach for
   people who find their control systems, or "user interfaces", too
   complex. And even people who have no difficulty navigating menus,
   dialogue boxes and so on, might use computers more productively if
   their interfaces were better.

   Consider the Nokia 6680 mobile phone, says Adam Greenfield, an expert
   in computing culture at New York University and the author of
   "Everyware", a book about the future of computing. He found that 13
   clicks were needed to change its ringtone. "It's an interface designed
   by engineers for engineers," he says. Steven Kyffin, a senior
   researcher at Philips, a consumer-electronics giant based in Eindhoven
   in the Netherlands, concedes that computer programmers and engineers,
   himself included, are often guilty of designing complicated systems
   packed with too many features. "We're compelled by complexity," Mr
   Kyffin says. "There's a point where humanity just can't handle it."
   Tellingly, the field of interface design even has an unwieldy name: it
   is known as "human-computer interaction", or HCI.

   Part of the problem is that programmers have traditionally had more
   power than designers. Programmers put in place the myriad features
   they want; interface designers then struggle to wrap them all up in a
   product that is simple to use. The results, all too often, are clunky
   interfaces. But the balance of power may now be shifting to the
   designers. Ken Wood, deputy director of Microsoft's research
   laboratory in Cambridge, England, says his company is putting greater
   emphasis on interface design. Three years ago, he says, none of his
   lab's budget was earmarked for pure HCI research. Today, a quarter of
   the lab's budget goes on it.

   Making computers simpler to operate would help the people who use them
   and the companies that produce them. Ease of use is one area where
   technology firms can differentiate themselves and gain competitive
   advantage. Just look at Apple, which is able to charge a premium for
   its products thanks to their elegance and simplicity. Its Macintosh
   computer, launched in 1984, helped to popularise the window, menu and
   mouse-based graphical interface--a huge step forward from the system
   of cryptic typed commands it replaced. Graphical interfaces became
   common in the 1990s, but there has been very little progress since.

   What comes next? In March this year Microsoft assembled a group of HCI
   experts to discuss this question at a conference near Seville called
   HCI 2020. Andrew Herbert, managing director of Microsoft's Cambridge
   laboratory, told attendees that interface simplification is vital if
   the computing world is to be opened up to new consumers such as the
   elderly, children and people with little computer experience.
   Microsoft says new features in its Windows Vista operating system,
   such as 3-D graphics intended to make navigation easier, demonstrate
   its commitment to greater ease of use.

   The view from Hollywood

   But tweaking an existing window-based interface is hardly a radical
   step. For a more dramatic vision of what may be to come, look no
   further than "Minority Report" (2002), Steven Spielberg's futuristic
   thriller starring Tom Cruise. Set in the year 2054, it depicts people
   operating computers using hand gestures detected by sensors.
   Gesture-based computing might sound odd--do you really want to dismiss
   a document on your computer by airily waving it away?--but computer
   mice were derided in 1983.

   Today's gesture-based systems take many forms. iO, a company based in
   Treviso, Italy, sells the Sensitive Wall, a large screen for banks and
   showrooms that senses movement within a metre or so. Passers-by can
   wave their hands to flip the pages of a virtual brochure through a
   shop window, or view promotional images from different angles. "The
   idea is to have the digital world melt into the physical world," says
   iO's Daniele Modesto.

                                                         Perceptive Pixel

                              Perceptive Pixel

   The "multi-touch" interface devised by Jeff Han, a researcher at New
   York University's Courant Institute, is more elaborate. It is based on
   a large touch screen (pictured) that can sense more than one touch at
   a time. This makes possible two-handed gestures such as selecting an
   area of an image, rotating it or zooming in and out. He believes this
   sort of approach will have far wider appeal than today's windows and
   mouse-based systems, and he has founded a start-up, called Perceptive
   Pixel, to commercialise the technology.

   Another version of a multi-touch screen, developed at Microsoft, shows
   how the technology could be integrated into a home, office or shop, in
   the form of a table. The Microsoft Surface, a horizontal touch-screen
   computer with neither keyboard nor mouse, will go on sale in November.
   Its gesture-based interface allows images and documents to be
   manipulated; the table-like computer also recognises other devices
   (such as digital cameras or mobile phones) when they are placed on top
   of it, and can download images from them automatically.

   Touch screens make computing feasible in new places, especially public
   ones, by doing away with keyboards, which can get gummed up with grime
   or spilled drinks. iSuppli, a market-research company based in El
   Segundo, California, estimates that the wholesale touch-screen market
   will expand by 17% this year to reach $2.8 billion. The incorporation
   of touch screens into portable devices is one driver of this growth.
   Apple's iPhone, launched in June, is a mobile phone with a
   gesture-sensitive multi-touch screen. Objects can be moved on the
   screen by dragging them with a finger, made bigger or smaller by
   spreading or pinching them with two fingers, and discarded with a
   flick off the screen's edge. Touch screens have particular appeal in
   portable devices because virtual buttons and other controls appear on
   screen only when required. The lack of a physical keyboard leaves more
   room for a bigger screen.

   Another alternative to the mouse as a pointing device is to use a
   gaze-tracking camera, which works out where you are looking and moves
   an on-screen pointer accordingly. A foot-pedal or keyboard switch then
   replaces the click of a mouse button. So far such systems appeal
   chiefly to disabled people who cannot use a conventional mouse.
   Antonio Tessitore of Villa Literno, Italy, had to give up his job
   after developing a degenerative muscular disease. Last year he began a
   new full-time job at a charitable association, using a gaze-tracking
   system that, he says, allows him to operate a computer with "no
   limitations". Manu Kumar, a researcher at Stanford University in
   California, is developing a gaze-tracking system called GUIDe aimed at
   a broader market: people who share documents. It works out which parts
   of documents people pay the most attention to, and highlights them
   accordingly. Other HCI researchers are using microphones, webcams and
   other sensors to try to work out what people are doing.

   But making computers simpler to use will require more than novel input
   devices. Smarter software is needed, too. For example, much effort is
   going into the development of "context aware" systems that hide
   unnecessary clutter and present options that are most likely to be
   relevant, depending on what the user is doing.

   Giving you what you want

   The trick, says Patrick Brezillon of University Paris VI, is to get
   computers to "size up the temperament of users" and then give them
   what they want. This can be done by analysing the frequency of
   keystrokes, the number of typos, the length of work breaks,
   internet-search terms and background noise, among other things.

   All sorts of things can be done with this information: playing
   soothing music for agitated users, proposing a break if the number of
   errors goes up, or suppressing notification of incoming e-mails to
   avoid breaking someone's concentration. Albrecht Schmidt, an HCI
   expert at the Bonn laboratory of the Fraunhofer Institute, one of
   Europe's largest research organisations, says a mobile phone could
   even change its behaviour depending on its location. One of his
   prototype systems shuffles the queue of voice-mail messages to give
   priority to messages from friends when the phone is out of the office.

   The problem with all of this is that people may not want computers to
   make assumptions about their needs and preferences--not least because
   those assumptions may be wrong. But proponents of context-aware
   computing say it is merely the next logical step from existing systems
   such as spam filters. The next generation of e-mail filters, say HCI
   researchers, will be "gradation" filters that delay notification or
   delivery of certain e-mails to avoid bothering the recipient.

                                                     Ronald Grant Archive
                                                     Ronald Grant Archive

                                           They said mice were silly, too

   Henry Holtzman, a researcher at the Massachusetts Institute of
   Technology, says vehicles provide the most promising environment for
   context-aware interfaces. Since the position of the driver is fixed,
   cars can be fitted with sensing equipment that would be obtrusive in
   other contexts. Stopping mobile phones from ringing in heavy rain, or
   during a sharp turn, he suggests, might prevent accidents. But, he
   adds, if such decision-making by computers is to be accepted, people
   must be convinced to trust it.

   That could be difficult. Anind Dey, a researcher at Carnegie Mellon
   University's HCI Institute in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, is designing a
   vehicle-navigation system that tailors driving directions for
   individual drivers. Cars fitted with sensors and cameras collect data
   on the driving styles of test participants, including their
   acceleration and braking patterns, assertiveness in changing lanes,
   and so on. The navigation computer then picks a route that
   accommodates each driver's strengths and weaknesses. The system works
   fine--but when drivers are told what is happening, they get angry.
   This suggests, says Mr Dey, that contextual computing needs to be
   discreet: such systems are, in effect, judging people and trying to
   influence their behaviour. Systems that manipulate people, he says,
   may have to keep quiet about it to work.

   Many futurists and computer experts believe that the logical
   conclusion of all of these new input devices, sensors and smarter
   software to anticipate users' needs, will be for computing to blend
   into the background. In this "ubiquitous computing" model, computers
   will no longer be things people use explicitly, any more than they
   "use" electricity when turning on a light or a radio. Mr Greenfield
   says a digital "dream world" that provides "one seamless experience of
   being immersed in information" hinges on one big if: computers and
   their interfaces must become so good that, like electricity, they
   rarely require concentrated attention. The trouble with computers in
   their current form is that they are still all too conspicuous.


   Computing: The German Democratic Republic bequeathed a 600m-piece
   puzzle to the reunified country. It is about to be solved using
   software

                                                               Fraunhofer
                                                               Fraunhofer

                                                     Look, an edge piece!

   WHEN the shredding machines failed and the mob was at the gates, the
   spooks at East Germany's State Security Service, better known as the
   Stasi, tried turning their files into mush by dunking them in water.
   But the number of bathtubs in their headquarters in Normannenstrasse
   was as unequal to the task as the machines had been. In the end, they
   resorted to tearing each page up by hand. The fact that many of the
   resulting shreds are only a few millimetres across is testament to
   just how much the soon-to-be-ex-members of the intelligence service
   did not want their work to fall into the public domain.

   If Bertram Nickolay of the Fraunhofer Institute for Production Systems
   and Design Technology, in Berlin, has his way, however, the public
   domain is exactly where they will soon end up. Using the institute's
   expertise in pattern-matching technology, he and his colleagues are
   about to embark on one of the biggest jigsaw puzzles of all time--or,
   rather, 45m of them. For that is the number of pages which the 600m
   fragments of paper, stored in more than 16,000 bags that were
   recovered from Normannenstrasse, are thought to represent.

   At first glance the task of joining that many shreds looks impossible,
   even when each shred has been scanned so that the matching can be done
   by machine. The secret, as with any computing task, is to break the
   problem into smaller, more manageable chunks. The first stage of this
   breakdown was done, unwittingly, by the Stasi themselves. Since they
   were in a hurry, the shredders tended to stuff all the bits of a given
   document into a single bag. That greatly simplifies the problem, so
   that rather than being nearly impossible it becomes merely unwieldy.

   The next stage is to group the shreds from a single bag according to
   various criteria. These include the colour and texture of the paper
   each shred is made from, whether that paper is lined or not, the
   colour of the ink used, whether that ink represents a picture, a piece
   of typewritten text or a piece of handwriting, and--if it is
   handwriting--what style.

   Only when a group of related shreds has been found using these
   criteria does the actual puzzling begin. That is done the way human
   puzzlers do it, by paying attention to shapes and sizes of the pieces,
   and the contours of their edges. If two shreds can be connected, they
   are regarded as one larger shred, and are thrown back into the heap of
   images to be analysed and compared with the others. Thus, as with a
   real jigsaw, areas get progressively filled in until the whole picture
   is finally complete.

   Like a human, the program that does the puzzling is capable of
   learning. It spawns slightly altered versions of itself that compete
   for computer time on the basis of their success at finding matches.
   The most successful are then mutated again, in a process similar to
   biological evolution. This is necessary because unlike a real jigsaw
   or a machine-shredded document, in which the pieces fit perfectly, the
   shreds of a torn document are slightly distorted and frayed at the
   edges. Deciding what matches what therefore requires judgment, which
   is notoriously difficult to program in advance. Indeed, if the program
   really cannot make up its mind whether two shreds match or not, it
   refers the matter to a human operator.

   Dr Nickolay is planning to process about 400 bags over the course of
   the next two years as a final test of the technology. If that works,
   it will just be a question of adding more scanners and computers to
   expose the truth about East Germany's dark past.


   History and personality have hamstrung Gordon Brown. But he is
   not--yet--as fated as John Major



   [3]Gordon Brown

   STUN the pig, hang it up by its trotters and slice it open. Decant
   some blood, pull out the organs and other unwanted bits, then squeeze
   them into a tube of scraped intestine.

   Sausages are indeed harder to swallow if you know how they are made.
   So, Bismarck famously observed, are laws. The same might be said of
   Gordon Brown's premiership--because, alas, it looks as if many of the
   unappetising things said about him before he became prime minister are
   true (and, as Mr Brown's luck would have it, they were said again in a
   documentary series starring his predecessor that began airing this
   week).

   It is true, or seems to be, that Mr Brown is maniacally ambitious but
   politically timid. He is intellectually curious but cripplingly
   indecisive. Witness the barrage of procrastinating policy reviews that
   he unleashes in every speech; unsurprisingly, more were set up this
   week, after the tragicomic loss of two doomsday discs by the revenue
   and customs service (HMRC). It is true, as the uncharitable gave
   warning, that Mr Brown copes badly with criticism--so badly, it turns
   out, that he sometimes shakes with pain and rage. He appoints
   supposedly independent ministers, then bullies them into line-toeing
   submission. He shies from blame when it is due and sucks up credit
   when it is not.

   Unfortunately, the gristle and the guts--the ugly secrets of the Brown
   abattoir--have been gruesomely displayed for all to see. During the
   non-election fiasco in October, the country witnessed the low
   political calculation and fake ecumenicism, the shallow bombast and
   obfuscation, the indecision and ultimately the cowardice. In the first
   days of the Northern Rock crisis, it saw--or rather didn't see--Mr
   Brown hide behind the sofa that he kept in Number 10 when Tony Blair
   left, just as he kept the uncollegial approach to government
   associated with it. Those who thought he could shuffle off his old
   skin when he realised his prime-ministerial dream, or at least that
   his psychological tics would not warp his tenure, seem to have been
   wrong. For Mr Brown, perhaps personality is destiny after all.

   Just as ineluctably, history seems to be his destiny too. Mr Brown's
   pitch was that, as prime minister, he would offer a change, not only
   from his own earlier incarnation but also from the previous decade of
   Labour rule. For a while the strategy was surprisingly successful; it
   has now comprehensively collapsed. The truly damaging thing about the
   HMRC fiasco is not that it undermines Mr Brown's claims to have
   governed competently since June. It is that, like the ongoing
   embarrassment over Northern Rock (which is partly to be blamed on the
   regulatory system Mr Brown designed), it has reminded the public of
   Labour's chequered record, and of Mr Brown's role in it. This is an
   old and flawed government, these debacles remind people--and the
   architect of some of those flaws is now leading it.

   So there is no escape from the past. Between them, it now seems to
   many, history and personality have scuppered Mr Brown's
   administration. He and Labour have accumulated too many mistakes and
   behaved too distastefully, some think, like John Major's cabinet in
   the mid-1990s (though it was the personality of Sir John's complacent
   party rather than his own that was the main problem then). Sooner or
   later--and probably as late as possible--Mr Brown will be spat out by
   a general election. But, runs the increasingly conventional wisdom,
   after this week, with voters' trust forfeited, the media derisive and
   whispering about his leadership under way, he is probably done for
   already.

   He may be. But there are three reasons to think otherwise.

   First, Mr Brown has not yet conclusively failed the first test of all
   prime ministers: the Hippocratic one. Northern Rock may prove
   financially catastrophic; the lost discs may yet result in
   inconveniences that upset voters irrevocably. But Mr Brown has not
   presided over any cast-iron disasters or lethal scandals. This was a
   dark week, but it was no Black Wednesday.

   Second, for all his faults and the virtues of David Cameron, the Tory
   leader, it is far too soon to conclude that the preference for Mr
   Cameron evident in recent opinion polls is fixed. The two men have yet
   to face off in anything resembling normal political circumstances,
   with no election furore or freakish mishaps. Mr Cameron is not yet the
   inevitable prime minister that Mr Blair seemed soon after he became
   Labour leader in 1994; compared with Sir John, Mr Brown has a big
   parliamentary majority and a relatively united party behind him. All
   that may change: Mr Cameron's poll lead may stabilise or widen,
   especially if the economic outlook and public finances deteriorate, as
   they seem likely to. But even then, Mr Brown could still turn out to
   be a good prime minister.

   Eat up, or no dessert

   Political leaders can be successful in two ways, which do not always
   go together and sometimes even contradict each other: they can win
   lots of elections, or they can leave their country better off, one way
   or another, than when they took charge of it. Mr Brown will have less
   fair circumstances and almost certainly less time than Mr Blair did to
   change Britain. But beneath the bluster and mishaps, he is showing at
   least an appetite for taking on some of the most intractable problems
   of social policy--such as the fact that too many pupils leave school
   with no qualifications, and that too many people expensively claim
   incapacity benefit. Probably he will fail to solve them, as Labour has
   done until now. But he is at least trying. He truly wants to spread
   opportunity more fairly (all those mute inglorious Himmelfarbs...). He
   is tentatively but admirably beginning to rebalance Britain's skewed
   constitution.

   Two months ago, when Mr Brown seemed able to turn flood waters into
   wine, it would have seemed absurd to be thinking in these terms. But
   now it is worth remembering: there may still be some wholesome meat
   left in Mr Brown's sausage.




   Britain's wayward yoof is an old problem, but a problem all the same

   ONE evening, when Bagehot was at university, a student who lived next
   door to him fell badly ill. An ambulance was called, but its route was
   blocked by a pile of clothes and a gaggle of drunk, naked young men.
   They were members of a drinking society (roughly analogous to American
   fraternities). The boozy nudity at precisely this spot, they
   explained, refusing to budge, was an awfully important initiation
   rite.

   This incident came to mind last month when something not dissimilar
   happened near Wigan, in northern England. A group of youths obstructed
   an ambulance and harassed the paramedics in it, whose patient died.
   That little act of thuggery was scarcely noticed amid the ongoing run
   of murders by British youngsters, by knife and sometimes gun. Most of
   the victims have been young too: 18 people aged 18 or under have been
   killed in London this year, stabbed on the street or shot in
   nightclubs--not many by Los Angeles standards, perhaps, but troubling
   by Britain's. Not all the victims have been teenagers: a father in
   Warrington was beaten to death outside his home last week after
   remonstrating with vandals. "No street is safe any more from marauding
   hooligans," lamented the Sun, which recently fulminated about the yobs
   who urinated in drinking-water supplies delivered to flood-stricken
   western England.

   Are British delinquents really more depraved, and more numerous, than
   they used to be, or than other countries' are? That university
   prank--as well as confirming that the posh and plebeian classes can be
   oddly alike--suggests that there is little new under the sun, even if
   the Sun says there is. Hysteria over degenerate children was even more
   intense in 1993, when two ten-year-olds murdered a toddler in
   Liverpool. From punks and skinheads, through the gangs that prowled
   the post-war London rubble and beyond, "yoof" has always been a
   concern, and always getting worse. "I would there were no age between
   sixteen and three-and-twenty," says a Shakespearean character, "for
   there is nothing in the between but getting wenches with child,
   wronging the ancientry, stealing, fighting." It is true that more
   teenage British wenches are got with child than other European ones,
   and that British teenagers are unusually prone to taking drugs,
   fighting, venereal disease and boozing: a senior policeman called this
   week for tighter rules on alcohol. But few who drink or smoke pot
   graduate to knife crime. Many do none of these things; most are
   better-off and better-educated than ever.

   Not much has changed--and don't generalise: those are the relaxed
   arguments of some sociologists, criminologists and other
   yoof-ologists. But an old problem still counts as a problem; that
   Britons have always worried about yoof doesn't mean they are wrong to
   do so now. And conversations with teachers, youth workers and yoof
   itself suggest that in some ways the plight and behaviour of teenagers
   have indeed deteriorated.

   Hard evidence is difficult to come by, but more British teenagers seem
   to be carrying knives, intended to protect but liable to endanger.
   More assaults than previously seem to be provoked by imagined
   "disrespect"; afterwards, a teenage omerta often confounds the police.
   Murder is still overwhelmingly a male offence, but girls seem to be
   committing more violent crime too. Urban gangs are pursuing rivalries
   and vendettas against groups from other neighbourhoods, separated by
   boundaries that are invisible to oblivious adults. "Happy-slapping",
   whereby assailants film their attacks for their later amusement, has
   been an unanticipated consequence of putting cameras on mobile phones.

   As in America, the worst problems are often concentrated in specific
   communities. But they have wider costs, because adults can't tell the
   sociopaths from the bored loiterers. British adults, research
   suggests, are less likely to intervene than other Europeans if they
   see youngsters up to no good, with the result that parks and squares
   are turned over to adolescent rule.

   Only relate, relatives

   Naturally, the -ologists have lots of explanations, and the government
   lots of remedies. Some see youthful misbehaviour as the cost of
   progress--for example, as a by-product of affluence, which in
   combination with inequality has produced a rump of poor and resentful
   children. Another mostly benign trend, in Britain as elsewhere, is the
   elongation of adolescence, as many youngsters spend longer in
   education, unmarried and at home; the dark corollary of that, for some
   of the stubbornly large number of British kids who leave school with
   few or no qualifications, and who no longer go straight into a factory
   or trade, is a risky limbo period before they settle down. Other
   explanations finger parents, for getting divorced more than they used
   to, for absconding or for working long hours, all of which Britons are
   unusually inclined to do.

   Yet it seems to Bagehot that there is something else peculiar to
   British families, at least among Europeans--an oddity that is
   especially salient at this time of year. Visitors to piazzas or plazas
   are likely to see several generations of continental families happily
   talking, eating and even dancing together. British children, by
   contrast, spend relatively little time with their parents, and not
   only because the parents aren't around: many see fraternising with
   them in public as a fate worse than a mobile phone without a camera.
   Meanwhile, as that senior policeman complained this week, many British
   parents, whether there are one or two of them, seem indifferent to
   their children's antics, or incurious about them. Since the clubs and
   churches that once thrust them together have withered, unrelated
   youngsters and older people don't talk much either.

   The British are an emotionally unforthcoming lot in general; perhaps
   this intergenerational chasm should be seen as just an extreme form of
   the privacy and reserve that mark many British relationships. But it
   is a dangerous one.


   The third party gets down to choosing its third leader in two years 

   THE race for the leadership of the Liberal Democrats, which began when
   Sir Menzies Campbell resigned in October, has not been gripping.
   Indeed, the impressive performance of Vincent Cable, their caretaker,
   has garnered as much attention, with polls suggesting that the party
   has gained more than the Tories from Labour's continuing travails.

                                                                       PA
                                                                       PA

                                      Huhne and Clegg: rivals and friends

   But the Lib Dems will prefer the uneventful showdown between Nick
   Clegg, their home-affairs spokesman, and Chris Huhne, who holds the
   environment brief, to the intrigue and scandal that marred their
   previous election in 2006. On November 21st ballot papers were sent
   out to the party's 64,000 members, who have until December 15th to
   vote. The result is expected two days later.

   Though Lib Dems downplay the ideological divide in their party, it
   remains a coalition of classical liberals (led by the MPs who penned
   the free-market Orange Book in 2004) and social democrats (more
   numerous among the base). Their name--a compound of the old Liberal
   Party and the short-lived Social Democratic Party--reflects this. And
   if Mr Clegg, an Orange Booker, belongs squarely in the former camp, Mr
   Huhne has slanted his pitch towards the latter. Their favourite
   historical figures are revealing: Mr Huhne admires Lloyd George, the
   chancellor he calls "the father of the British welfare state", while
   Mr Clegg prefers those who have stood against state power, such as
   Vaclav Havel, the Czech dissident, and Harry Willcock, a Liberal
   activist who campaigned against identity cards in the 1950s.

   Mr Huhne is a credible candidate. He forged successful careers outside
   politics, first as a journalist (including a spell at The Economist)
   and then in finance. His grasp of economics (he made his millions
   selling economic research in the City) is valuable to a party that has
   tripped up on the detail of spending pledges before. And he is a
   strong and knowledgeable champion of green taxes, a subject in which
   voters are taking an increasing interest.

   Yet he has failed to leave Mr Clegg in his dust: the two are
   level-pegging, with almost half of Lib Dem members undecided. Though
   Mr Huhne has the more technical mind, Mr Clegg's experience in home
   affairs gives him an advantage on the sorts of non-economic issues
   that are becoming increasingly prominent. His proposal of a managed
   amnesty for illegal immigrants is both radical and reasonable. He is a
   constructive critic of the government's record on civil liberties
   without losing sight of the threat that terrorists pose to national
   security. He has called for liberals to address the issue of cultural
   identity, arguing that multiculturalism cannot extend to tolerating
   intolerance or turning a blind eye to segregated communities.

   There are reasons to be cautious about both candidates. Mr Clegg has
   run a flat campaign, and was rattled when his rival attacked him. He
   is the more natural communicator, but comparisons with David Cameron,
   the Conservative leader, are not yet justified. His promise of a "new
   kind of politics" echoes similar pledges by politicians who went on to
   revert to partisan point-scoring, including Mr Cameron. Nor does Mr
   Huhne inspire total confidence. His support for massively shrinking
   Britain's nuclear deterrent seems rash, and he is also unduly alarmist
   about public-service reform.

   All in all, however, the Lib Dems are lucky in their candidates; and
   partly as a result, the party is picking up in the polls. They are
   luckier still in their acting leader. Mr Cable--who coined the single
   best line of Gordon Brown's premiership this week when he pointed out
   that the prime minister had metamorphosed from being Stalin to Mr
   Bean--is having a very good war.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e11br081;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world699;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=19372644?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/mediadirectory/listing.cfm?journalistID=59
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world699;ord=1;num=1?



   Gordon Brown has identified the quality he most needs to project. Can
   he do it?

   [3]Gordon Brown

   PATRICK STEWART, once of Star Trek, was a petrifying Macbeth, and Sir
   Ian McKellen a monumental King Lear. Ewan McGregor is a slimy Iago.
   There has been a lot of top-notch Shakespeare on the London stage
   recently--and quite a lot of him in political commentary.
   "Shakespearean"--usually combined with "tragedy"--is one of the
   adjectives sometimes applied to Gordon Brown's premiership, the office
   for which he waited so long, but which so quickly came to seem
   ill-starred. There is some competition from Cassius in "Julius Caesar"
   (who "thinks too much" and "seldom smiles"); but the flawed
   Shakespearean hero whom Mr Brown has most seemed to resemble is
   Hamlet, with his "craven scruple/ Of thinking too precisely on
   th'event". Chiefly but not only because of last autumn's non-election
   fiasco, Mr Brown has begun to appear perilously indecisive--and he
   knows it.

   It is plain that he knows it because countering that perception is Mr
   Brown's priority for 2008. Just as he tried, and for a while last
   summer managed, to quash the idea that he is uncollegial and tribal,
   the prime minister is striving now to project decisiveness at every
   turn and in every sentence. In one of the interviews he gave as part
   of his new-year fight-back, Mr Brown vowed to make "big
   decisions...the right decisions...difficult long-term
   decisions...long-term and difficult decisions...long-term
   decisions...big long-term decisions"--you get the picture. He dropped
   in "fiscal arithmetic" a few times for variety, but the headline
   message is clear: this is to be the "decisive year".

   His calculation is that the old-fashioned virtues of strength and
   judgment are still more important than beer-buddy likeability. In
   Britain at least (and maybe not only in Britain), that calculation may
   be correct. With his occasional Timon of Athens-esque grumps, Mr Brown
   is thrashed by David Cameron, the Tory leader, when pollsters ask
   voters about the two men's charisma. But their overall ratings are
   close, which suggests other factors weigh as heavily. And Mr Brown's
   bid to cast Mr Cameron as a flip-flopping flibbertigibbet--part flashy
   Mark Antony, part toffy Andrew Aguecheek--may ring true enough to
   hurt. Mid-way through an electoral term, an opposition leader can
   afford some creative ambiguity; even so, Mr Cameron's stance on some
   issues, such as the new European treaty or real-world solutions to the
   Northern Rock crisis, is vulnerably flimsy.

   So Mr Brown could be right that decisiveness is the quality he most
   needs to project. Unfortunately, claiming to be decisive and actually
   being so are not the same. Moreover, in politics some decisions count
   for much more than others.

   Feel the future in the instant

   To get anything done, leaders need to make decisions. But certain
   decisions have a telling demonstration effect beyond their actual
   content. Decisiveness on big issues, or in the teeth of opposition,
   makes a leader seem resolute, far-sighted and above the narrow world
   of party politics, as Margaret Thatcher showed; so, to a lesser
   extent, did Tony Blair. The most effective decisions are often taken
   after deep but private consultation--with no-men as well as
   time-servers--so they manage to look bold while still being carefully
   considered.

   On the other hand, wilfully unpopular decisions can make a leader
   appear deranged, like some of those taken by Lady Thatcher in her
   late, Coriolanus phase ("Alone I did it!"). Then there are
   prevaricating pseudo-decisions, like Mr Brown's establishment of
   umpteen policy reviews. These at first looked clever and circumspect,
   but have cumulatively come to seem, as Hamlet puts it, "one part
   wisdom" and "three parts coward". Decisions forced on leaders by
   events--like Mr Brown's hasty emulation of the Tories' ideas for
   cutting inheritance tax--make them look weak or confused.

   Is Mr Brown starting to make more impressive calls? The long-term,
   difficult (and so on) decisions that he is touting mostly involve the
   economy, and specifically the tough line the government has taken with
   some public-sector unions over pay. On January 8th the chancellor
   offered, or threatened, to conclude three-year pay deals with some of
   them. By dwelling on this stringency, Mr Brown hopes to guard against
   both inflation and the political fallout of an economic downturn;
   also, less sensibly (because it makes him look desperate), to contrast
   his own record with the inflationary but long-ago early 1990s.

   Unfortunately, public-sector pay restraint may be a little too arcane,
   and bust-ups with unions too familiar, to work as reputation-forming
   decisions. But the announcement on January 9th that the government is
   to encourage the building of nuclear-power stations is more electric:
   overdue, perhaps, but important and controversial (as well as right).
   To persuade voters that Mr Brown really is The Decider, he ought to
   follow that up with, for example, decisions to put Northern Rock out
   of its misery, to scrap ID cards (which almost no one would mourn) and
   to do something genuinely radical with the National Health Service.
   Maybe Stephen Carter, his new right-hand man at Number 10, will help:
   Mr Carter is reputedly the man to provide the grip and focus that Mr
   Brown lost when he gave his erstwhile top aides their own cabinet
   jobs.

   In a recent documentary, Mr Blair said something interesting about
   decision-making. To do the prime minister's job properly, he
   reflected, "you need to be able to separate yourself somewhat from the
   magnitude of the consequences of the decisions you are taking." That
   ability to dissociate may not be an entirely appealing trait, but it
   is probably a necessary one for leaders, and is a very necessary one
   for Mr Brown. He has made a start, but in his "decisive year" he needs
   to seem much less Hamletic and more like his fellow Scot, Macbeth--for
   whom "the very firstlings of my heart [were]/ The firstlings of my
   hand."


   A private rescue of the stricken bank looks ever more remote

                                                                   Landov

                                   Landov

   THE first rule of being in a hole is the simplest: stop digging. Yet
   it is the hardest to follow. Ever since the government decided in
   September to bail out Northern Rock, a British mortgage lender that
   had run out of ready cash, it has been delving ever deeper. A line of
   credit intended to tide the bank over for a few months ballooned so
   hugely that the Bank of England is now owed around 25 billion ($50
   billion). And, after guaranteeing deposits in order to stop the first
   bank run in Britain since 1866, Alistair Darling, the chancellor of
   the exchequer, has since been forced to guarantee more and more of its
   debts.

   On December 18th the government moved closer towards what is, in
   effect, the nationalisation of Northern Rock when it extended its
   guarantee to cover almost all the bank's wholesale debts. What this
   means is that the Treasury is now directly guaranteeing about a third
   of the mortgage lender's liabilities, which are a bit over 100
   billion. That is on top of the 25 billion loan from the Bank of
   England. In all, the government's commitment to the bank has now
   reached the stomach-churning figure of over 55 billion.

   The support for Northern Rock is far larger than any likely call on
   taxpayers' money, which would result from losses at the bank. But the
   question that matters is whether the government's strategy has become
   broken-backed. Mr Darling may hope that he is buying time until a
   private buyer can be found to take it off taxpayers' hands. But that
   hope is looking less and less realistic as money markets remain
   dislocated and fearful.

   Wishful thinking

   Indeed, the bank run that began in mid-September has not yet been
   halted. The haemorrhage of retail deposits has slowed. Between 5m and
   10m is understood to be flowing out of customer accounts each day,
   compared with more than 200m on some days in November. However, the
   wholesale depositors and money-market participants on which Northern
   Rock relies for most of its funding have remained fickle. Without the
   new guarantee, billions of pounds might have been pulled out of the
   bank in the closing days of 2007.

   Attempts to sell Northern Rock are looking less and less feasible,
   since they require a hefty refinancing operation from banks that are
   in no mood to take on risky business. Although two bidders have
   emerged--Richard Branson's Virgin Group and Olivant, headed by Luqman
   Arnold who once ran Abbey National, a large British mortgage
   lender--neither has managed to borrow the 10 billion-15 billion they
   would need to start repaying the Bank of England's loan. Nor, it
   seems, have they come up with viable plans to repay the rest of the
   money before 2010. One proposal apparently rests on the astonishing
   assumption that Northern Rock would be able to win a 25% share of
   British retail deposits over the next three years.

   On December 14th the Treasury asked Goldman Sachs, an investment bank,
   to see if it could line up a group of banks willing to finance the
   stricken mortgage lender. Few hold out much faith that it can succeed
   where others have failed. Some of the leading investment bankers in
   London, from firms including Citigroup, Merrill Lynch and Blackstone,
   have done little else for the past three months.

   All hopes for a sale of Northern Rock now rest on two conditions, both
   of which seem unlikely. The first is a quick thawing in credit markets
   early in 2008 that would allow buyers to finance their bids. That
   looks optimistic, despite central-bank intervention to bring down
   elevated interbank interest rates.

   The second--that Northern Rock's shareholders agree to a deal that
   dilutes their stake in the bank--also looks improbable. SRM, a hedge
   fund, has recently increased its stake in Northern Rock to almost 10%
   and is understood to be keen to buy even more. It is calling for a
   shareholders' meeting (which may be announced early in 2008) and has
   also threatened to block any deal which it feels undervalues the bank.
   It knows well that the government can do little to coerce shareholders
   into accepting a sale of Northern Rock short of threatening to
   nationalise the bank or cutting off its funding, in which case it
   would go bust, an unattractive political choice.

   SRM's grandstanding strengthens the case for proposals by Mervyn King,
   the governor of the Bank of England, to remedy the absurd situation
   Britain finds itself in: it is the only country in the G7 without a
   special mechanism for dealing with distressed banks. In addition to a
   new system of deposit insurance, Mr King wants an agency that could
   take control of struggling lenders to protect deposits and then sell
   their assets.

   Such proposals suggest that the right lessons are now being learned
   from Northern Rock; they need to be introduced without delay. Yet the
   most pressing priority is to sort out the mess at the mortgage lender.
   The least undesirable way to deal with it may now be to take the bank
   into public ownership, in order to remove the veto of shareholders.
   That need not involve a long-term commitment, if buyers can be found
   for the bank's book. Mr Darling may still be striving to avoid
   nationalisation, but his quest looks ever more forlorn.


   Women's share of the prison population is creeping up


   CRIME is mostly men's work, and prison a man's world. But in Britain's
   heaving jails, the fastest-growing group is women. Male inmates have
   almost doubled in the past 30 years and females have nearly
   quadrupled. In 1970 one in 40 prisoners was a woman. Today it is one
   in 18.

   Before the steep rise came a long fall (see chart). Bar a couple of
   spikes during wartime (when male potential offenders were away
   fighting), women's share of jail places shrank steadily. That is
   partly because they were being locked up elsewhere. New reformatories
   for alcoholics and asylums for the feeble-minded catered mainly for
   women, "seeking to cure them, or where this proved impossible, to
   restrain them for so long as they were able to bear children,"
   according to Lucia Zedner of Oxford University. Psychiatrists began
   diagnosing women as mad, not bad, and female inmates became guinea
   pigs for new treatments outside the penal system.

   How different are today's inmates? "Women are imprisoned for much the
   same reasons as they were in the time of Elizabeth Fry," a
   19th-century prison reformer still pictured on 5 notes, says Juliet
   Lyon of the Prison Reform Trust, a campaigning organisation. Theft is
   still the most common offence, accounting for a third of the women put
   away. Addiction is still rife: 30% are inside for drugs offences, and
   58% are daily users. Debt and poverty continue to inspire crime.

   So do mental problems: eight out of ten female prisoners suffer from
   them, and they are twice as likely as men to be treated on arrival.
   But just as changes in mental-health policy helped to drive down the
   number of female prisoners at the start of the 20th century, they may
   now be driving them up. Places in mental hospitals have fallen from
   150,000 in 1950 to 30,000 now, as more patients are treated in the
   community. A side-effect is that those who go off the rails may go to
   jail instead of hospital.

   Female offenders, who tend to have committed only minor offences, have
   been hit again by a crackdown on nuisance crime. In 1992 those
   convicted of theft had a 2% chance of being sentenced to custody in
   the lower courts. By 2000 the odds were 14%. Tough regimes tend to go
   hand in hand with higher proportions of female inmates: in America,
   which imposes long sentences for mild crimes, women make up 9.1% of
   prisoners; in Germany, which has one-eighth as many prisoners per
   person, they make up 5.3%. France's jails, with fewer prisoners still,
   are only 3.6% female.

   A country's treatment of women therefore reflects its approach to
   offenders generally. But women raise extra concerns. Two-thirds of
   British women prisoners have children under 18, and 95% of them have
   to move house while their mother is banged up. And there are subtler
   cruelties: women are visited less than men, since their jails are
   fewer and farther between and their partners less conscientious. A
   third try to kill themselves each year.

   Their misery has swayed a sceptical public. Three-quarters believe
   that mothers should be spared jail unless they are violent, according
   to SmartJustice, a charity. Last year an official review suggested
   replacing women's jails with small, local units. The government
   endorsed much of the plan in December and is due to report back with
   firmer plans by April. The slow pace is maddening, says Ms Lyon, but
   the direction is right, if funding materialises.

   That still leaves the remaining 94% of prisoners--men--whose swelling
   ranks the government plans to hold in huge new "titan" jails. Many,
   like most women, are petty criminals spending just weeks inside and
   learning little. A century ago women were the guinea pigs for new
   thinking in penal reform. Could it happen again?


   The Treasury may be overdoing the crackdown

   FOR years, as chancellor of the exchequer, Gordon Brown dithered over
   what to do about rich foreigners living in Britain untaxed on their
   offshore wealth. Spurred by a Tory plan to clobber them, Alistair
   Darling, who now runs the Treasury, acted in October. His tax changes
   will bring in 650m ($1.3 billion) a year, far less than the
   Conservatives were hoping to raise. Even so they are arousing alarm,
   which a new consultation paper from the Treasury has done nothing to
   dispel.

   Some of the consternation is the usual bleating that arises when
   people have to pay more tax. But there is a genuine worry about damage
   to the economy. This risk is the main reason that the government has
   dragged its feet for so long over reform, as it has wrestled with a
   trade-off between tax equity and economic harm.

   Unlike other taxpayers, rich foreigners living in Britain can shelter
   their offshore wealth from tax. They do so by claiming "non-domiciled"
   status, asserting a longstanding connection with another country. This
   allows non-doms to avoid being taxed on overseas earnings and capital
   gains on assets held offshore, unless they remit income and gains to
   Britain. Their favoured status offends against a cardinal principle of
   tax equity: that taxpayers who have the same income (from wherever it
   is derived) should pay the same tax.

   On the other hand, as the Treasury paper lays out, non-doms, who
   include shipping tycoons and City high-fliers, pack an economic punch
   much weightier than their number, currently around 115,000. Their
   average earnings in Britain, on which they do pay tax, exceed
   100,000. As a result, they contributed taxable income of 12 billion
   to the economy in 2005-06 and paid income tax worth 4 billion.

   The danger in imposing a draconian tax regime on non-doms is that many
   of them may pack their bags and go elsewhere. That could harm the
   economy and lead to a loss in domestic tax revenues. Aware of the
   risk, Mr Darling is sweetening the tax pill. From next April, non-doms
   will face an annual levy of 30,000 to retain their status. This will
   apply only to those who have been in Britain for more than seven out
   of the past ten years, however.

   The period of grace slashes the number likely to be affected, to
   around 20,000. Of these, the Treasury says that only 4,000 will find
   it worthwhile to pay the levy; 3,000 will leave Britain, and the rest
   will give up their non-dom status, so that they are taxed on their
   foreign income and capital gains like ordinary Brits.

   On the face of it this looks like a reasonable deal, and a more
   sensible approach than the Tory plan, under which all non-doms would
   pay a 25,000 levy in order to retain their tax status. The Treasury
   estimates that this plan would bring in an extra 300m a year but
   prompt a further 13,000 non-doms to flee the country. It would also
   deter new temporary foreign workers from coming to Britain.

   But what is jarring nerves is that the Treasury also appears to be
   cracking down on the offshore trusts where non-doms hold much of their
   wealth. As yet the details are unclear, but there are mounting worries
   about the direction of travel. "The fear is that Britain's tax regime
   is becoming unfriendlier and more intrusive for mobile foreigners,"
   says John Whiting, a tax partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers, an
   accountancy firm.

   The government is not wrong to tighten taxation of non-doms, but it
   needs to tread carefully. After leaving them alone, arguably for too
   long, it needs to temper their tax privileges cautiously. The economy
   needs to keep attracting footloose, smart, rich foreign workers in
   order to thrive.


   Doing less for Britain's allegedly unhappy children might be the best
   policy

   IT HAS been a bad year to be young in Britain. In February UNICEF
   concluded that Britain was the worst place for children in the
   industrialised world, ranking it lowest on all sorts of measures,
   including, heartrendingly, whether children felt their peers were
   "kind and helpful". A spate of shootings and stabbings of teenagers by
   teenagers marred the summer. The autumn saw researchers lining up to
   report that expensive education policies had had little or no benefit;
   earlier this month OECD figures showed Britain's schools outclassed by
   other countries'. Child obesity, teenage pregnancy and under-age
   drinking in Britain are all high by international standards, and some
   problems are getting worse. The number of children living in poverty,
   which had fallen every year since 1999, was shown to have increased by
   100,000 in 2005-06.

   So when Ed Balls, the schools secretary, stood up in Parliament on
   December 11th to announce measures to make Britain "the best place in
   the world for children to grow up", his chutzpah was impressive. The
   ten-year "Children's Plan" he outlined was less so. It is a sprawling
   hymn to government intervention in all aspects of children's lives.
   "Is it necessary for the Whitehall screwdriver to reach into every
   school in the country?" asked David Laws, the Liberal Democrats'
   education spokesman.

   The hyperactivity was inspired by a basic observation: that children
   often fail in school because of what is happening at home. An analysis
   published on December 13th by the Sutton Trust, an education charity,
   provides the latest evidence that gaps between rich and poor open up
   early. Among children born in 2000, the poor ones with a good
   vocabulary at age three had fallen back just two years later;
   meanwhile, rich but less verbally adept ones made up ground. If the
   trend continues, the researchers say, by the age of seven the paths of
   the two groups will have crossed.

   The solution offered in the children's plan is to get schools to do
   many of the things that a good parent would do. In future all schools
   are to stay open from 8am to 6pm in term-time, and offer a range of
   activities, from artistic to sporting. And other professionals are to
   operate from the schools: social workers, health visitors and even
   community police officers.

   Schools will also get their hands on children earlier. The entitlement
   to free nursery care is being extended from 12 to 15 hours for three-
   and four-year-olds and to 20,000 two-year-olds from the poorest
   families. An "early-years foundation-stage" framework--already
   nicknamed the "toddlers' curriculum"--is due to come into force next
   autumn. It sets out exactly what small children are expected to be
   able to do, from birth to age five, and child carers in both state-run
   and private nurseries will have to monitor progress against these
   standards. There are 69 early-learning goals and more than 500
   development milestones, including the instruction that under-ones
   should "play with their own fingers and toes" and one-year-olds should
   "become absorbed in putting objects in and out of containers".
   Three-year-olds must start learning to read and write--earlier than
   children in the rest of Europe, indeed in most of the world.

   But some fear that this attempt to help will in fact compound the
   problem. Opposition parties and parent-teacher associations attacked
   the expansion of government monitoring and measuring into the earliest
   years. A starry coalition of concerned professionals, including
   Penelope Leach, an expert on child care, and Dorothy Rowe, a
   psychologist, have launched a campaign against plans to make
   pre-school care more structured and academic in style. Far from
   helping British children catch up with their peers in other countries,
   the campaigners say, such a "head start" in literacy may cause
   emotional and behavioural problems later on. In fact, British children
   should start formal school later than they do now--which, at age four,
   is already younger than children in most other places.

   Some optimists note that the children's plan offers a few scraps of
   comfort to those who worry that British youngsters are being
   frogmarched through their childhood, with little time to stand and
   stare. Summer-born children, whose younger start puts them at a
   disadvantage right into secondary school, may be allowed to wait a
   little before starting school. Britain's rigid approach to grouping
   children by age, regardless of educational progress, may be relaxed a
   little. And if the results of a two-year pilot study are favourable,
   youngsters will no longer take the same tests together at the end of
   primary school, but will have tailored papers appropriate to their
   level whenever teachers deem them ready.

   The biggest worry, though, is that a plan that sets out to do
   everything for all children will end up doing nothing well. Removing
   the spotlight from schooling risks losing the focus necessary to
   improve the results of the groups that fall behind, says Alan Smithers
   of the University of Buckingham. He likens the plans for schools that
   run all aspects of children's and families' lives to the sort of
   corporate merger that sees cross-cutting synergies and holistic
   opportunities--but ends up destroying value. "I can imagine that in
   2020 an education minister will announce an exciting new sort of
   institution that concentrates exclusively on educating children, and
   makes a virtue of doing that one thing superlatively," he says.
   Perhaps they might be called schools.


   Energy: Researchers have developed an environmentally friendly light
   bulb that uses very little energy and should never need changing

                                                             Belle Mellor
                                                             Belle Mellor

   ALTHOUGH it symbolises a bright idea, the traditional incandescent
   light bulb is a dud. It wastes huge amounts of electricity, radiating
   95% of the energy it consumes as heat rather than light. Its life is
   also relatively short, culminating in a dull pop as its filament
   fractures. Now a team of researchers has devised a light bulb that is
   not only much more energy-efficient--it is also expected to last
   longer than the devices into which it is inserted. Moreover, the lamp
   could be used for rear-projection televisions as well as general
   illumination.

   The trick to a longer life, for light bulbs at least, is to ensure
   that the lamp has no electrodes. Although electrodes are undeniably
   convenient for plugging bulbs directly into the lighting system, they
   are also the main reason why lamps fail. The electrodes wear out. They
   can react chemically with the gas inside the light bulb, making it
   grow dimmer. They are also difficult to seal into the structure of the
   bulb, making the rupture of these seals another potential source of
   failure.

   Scientists working for Ceravision, a company based in Milton Keynes,
   in Britain, have designed a new form of lamp that eliminates the need
   for electrodes. Their device uses microwaves to transform electricity
   into light. It consists of a relatively small lump of aluminium oxide
   into which a hole has been bored. When the aluminium oxide is
   bombarded with microwaves generated from the same sort of device that
   powers a microwave oven, a concentrated electric field is created
   inside the void.

   If a cylindrical capsule containing a suitable gas is inserted into
   the hole, the atoms of the gas become ionised. As electrons accelerate
   in the electric field, they gain energy that they pass on to the atoms
   and molecules of the gas as they collide with them, creating a glowing
   plasma. The resulting light is bright, and the process is
   energy-efficient. Indeed, whereas traditional light bulbs emit just 5%
   of their energy as light, and fluorescent tubes about 15%, the
   Ceravision lamp has an efficiency greater than 50%.

   Because the lamp has no filament, the scientists who developed it
   think it will last for thousands of hours of use--in other words, for
   decades. Moreover, the light it generates comes from what is almost a
   single point, which means that the bulbs can be used in projectors and
   televisions. Because of this, the light is much more directional and
   the lamp could thus prove more efficient than bulbs that scatter light
   in all directions. Its long life would make the new light ideal for
   buildings in which the architecture makes changing light bulbs
   complicated and expensive. The lamps' small size makes them comparable
   to light-emitting diodes but the new lamp generates much brighter
   light than those semiconductor devices do. A single microwave
   generator can be used to power several lamps.

   Another environmental advantage of the new design is that it does not
   need mercury, a highly toxic metal found in most of the bulbs used
   today, including energy-saving fluorescent bulbs, fluorescent tubes
   and the high-pressure bulbs used in projectors. And Ceravision also
   reckons it should be cheap to make. With lighting accounting for some
   20% of electricity use worldwide, switching to a more efficient system
   could both save energy and reduce emissions of climate-changing
   greenhouse gases.


   Video games: New furniture, controllers and screens are helping to
   make video games even more immersive and realistic



   AUDRA MCIVER, a publicist, was attending the New York Toy Fair in
   February when she came across a display of gaming chairs--seats
   designed specifically for playing video games. She sat down to try
   one, and the experience proved to be so engrossing that she remained
   in the chair, glued to the screen and playing "Project Gotham Racing
   3", for several hours. Passers by began asking her for product
   details, thinking she worked for the chair's manufacturer, at which
   point she realised just how long she had been sitting in it. "That was
   a great chair--I just loved it," she recalls.

   Most gamers are quite happy to sit on a sofa or a beanbag when playing
   "Gears of War" or "Grand Theft Auto". But as other aspects of gaming
   become more realistic, from high-definition graphics to vibrating
   controllers, manufacturers sense an opportunity to offer dedicated
   gaming furniture, controllers designed for specific gaming genres and
   new types of fancy screens.

   The Raptor, for example, made by the Ultimate Game Chair company, has
   built-in speakers and features 12 motors that provide a full-body
   version of the vibration effects delivered through hand-held
   controllers. Pyramat's S5000 Sound Rocker is another chair with
   built-in speakers; it uses wireless technology to beam the audio
   signals from the console. The Nethrone goes further: it is an
   ergonomic seat in an adjustable chrome frame which doubles as a
   monitor stand. The whole thing looks like a machine for subjecting
   astronauts to high G-forces, but is meant to allow gamers to play
   while reclining in comfort.

   Fancy controllers are another way to increase the realism of certain
   games. Racing games found in arcades have steering wheels and pedals;
   wheels such as Logitech's NASCAR Racing Wheel can now be bought for
   use at home by those truly obsessed with driving simulators. The same
   is true of joysticks. The most advanced models, such as the
   ThrustMaster Top Gun Afterburner Force Feedback made by Guillemot, now
   resemble those found in fighter aircraft in their layout and
   complexity.

   The popularity of the "Guitar Hero" series of games, in which players
   must press coloured buttons in time with classic rock tracks, means
   that many televisions in gaming households now have small, plastic
   electric-guitar controllers propped up next to them. "Rock Band", a
   game in a similar vein that will be released later this year, will
   have bass-guitar and drum-kit controllers, too. Players may look
   ridiculous, but they would not enjoy such games nearly as much without
   these special controllers.

   A lot of innovation is also going on in the field of displays. PC
   gamers tend to sit right in front of their screens while gaming,
   whereas console gamers tend to sit a bit further away. Sitting close
   to a large display, be it a monitor or a widescreen television,
   provides a particularly immersive experience, because the game
   occupies almost all of the player's field of vision. Taking that a
   step further, Matrox, a Canadian firm that makes display cards for
   PCs, has devised "TripleHead2Go". This is a box that combines three
   separate monitors so that they behave like a single, very large, very
   wide monitor. In games with a first-person perspective, such as
   "Unreal" or "Half-Life 2", the monitors can then be arranged to mimic
   peripheral vision. And flight-simulator fans can simulate the view
   from an aircraft's cockpit windows.

   Mitsubishi, meanwhile, is adding a new feature called "Game FX" to its
   ultra-large DLP televisions (which measure up to 73 inches
   diagonally). This will double the usual frame-rate to enable two
   separate sets of images to be interleaved. Using special glasses,
   players can alternate between images for the right and left eyes, so
   that the television becomes a three-dimensional display, at least for
   games that support this feature.

   A different approach to immersion comes from Philips, which includes a
   technology called amBX in some of its televisions. Its main feature is
   "ambient lighting", in which lights behind and around the screen bathe
   the room with the same hues shown on screen. Also available are extra
   speakers, fans and vibration packs, all of which can be triggered when
   necessary by suitably programmed games. Several video-game publishers,
   including Codemasters, Gearbox Software and THQ, have agreed to
   support the technology.

   Where will it all end? Harvey Smith, a respected game designer who has
   worked on titles including "System Shock" and "Thief", says the most
   immersive experiences depend not on fancy technology, but on good
   design, and the ability to create a coherent and believable game
   world. Despite all the gadgets that are now available, he says,
   "nothing is as immersive as a good book."


   The shadow of an old accident haunts Britain's nuclear revival


   THIS is a big week in the government's attempt to rehabilitate nuclear
   energy. Eight months after a court ruled that its first public
   consultation on whether to build more reactors had been misleading and
   unfair, its second attempt finished on October 10th. For a government
   with (until recently) a reputation for slick public relations, that
   date looks ill-judged. For it also marks the 50th anniversary of a
   fire at the Windscale nuclear reactor in Cumbria that was, until Three
   Mile Island in 1979, the world's worst atomic accident (the Chernobyl
   explosion in 1986 dwarfs both).

   The fire broke out during a maintenance operation and burned for over
   40 hours before engineers realised what was happening. At its height,
   11 tonnes of uranium fuel was burning at temperatures of up to 1,300
   degrees Celsius. A plume of radioactive smoke drifted south towards
   London, and east over Norway and Belgium. The fire was put out by
   drenching the reactor's core with water, a risky operation that could
   have caused a hydrogen explosion. The prime minister, Harold
   Macmillan, ordered the disaster hushed up.

   Experts insist that a repeat of the Windscale accident is extremely
   unlikely. The heat build-up that sparked the fire was caused by poor
   knowledge of reactor physics, which are much better understood today.
   The reactor itself--designed to produce plutonium for Britain's
   bombs--was full of flammable material and built with few of the safety
   features that modern power stations are laden with. Simon Taylor, an
   economist at Cambridge University's business school, argues that
   Windscale was good for Britain's nuclear industry, since it focused
   minds on safety.

   Such reassurances cut little ice with the public. According to Ipsos
   MORI, a polling outfit, public support for nuclear energy has risen
   over the past six years (see chart). More Britons now support nuclear
   power than oppose it. But despite official arguments about nuclear
   power's low-carbon nature and potential contribution to more secure
   electricity supplies, the rise in its popularity has hardly been
   dramatic. Support peaked in 2005 and has fallen since then, except
   among MPs--many of whom will merely be toeing the line of a government
   keen to see new plants built.

   Experts and pressure groups have tended to worry more in recent years
   about the cost of building reactors and how to dispose of the waste
   they generate than about safety risks, says Mr Taylor. But the public
   has very different priorities. While 55% of respondents cited waste
   disposal as a problem with nuclear power, 48% worried about a
   radiation leak and 46% about a nuclear accident. Only 13% cared about
   the potential cost.

   Environmental groups have dismissed the government's new consultation,
   arguing that its aim is to sell a policy that has already been decided
   upon rather than genuinely to canvass voters' views. Yet greens may
   have little to fear. The polls reveal a striking and pervasive public
   distrust of official information about nuclear power. Only scientists
   employed by universities, a few television-news programmes and
   environmental groups are trusted to tell the truth. Government
   scientists and cabinet ministers are widely disbelieved. The most
   distrusted figure of all is Gordon Brown himself, although the polling
   was conducted before he became prime minister. Since official sources
   have so little credibility, any attempt to sell nuclear energy to the
   public may end up sharpening people's doubts.


   Why cities' plans for renewal often sound strangely familiar

   A STROLL through the centre of most British cities is much prettier
   now than it was a decade ago. Though output in the north has grown
   more slowly than elsewhere, its cities have beautified themselves:
   boules pistes and public sculpture liven up formerly deserted bits of
   Leeds; the seafront at Hull boasts a futuristic new aquarium. A year
   of civic jollification has just begun in Liverpool, named "European
   Capital of Culture 2008" and given a big dollop of European Union
   cash. This week Sheffield presented plans for a new high-tech "digital
   square mile", complete with suitably jazzy new buildings.

   The cranes on provincial skylines are encouraging. But followers of
   regeneration, as the business of boosting down-at-heel neighbourhoods
   is now known, might notice that many cities seem to be thinking alike.
   Sheffield's digital square mile will complement what neighbouring
   Leeds calls its own "digital cluster"; over the Pennines, Salford is
   beavering away on a "digital-industries hub". And though Liverpool is
   the official capital of culture, places such as Gateshead (where the
   huge Baltic flour mill is now an arts centre) and Wakefield (which is
   due to open a new Barbara Hepworth gallery in the winter of 2009) have
   similar hopes.

   Why do city councils have the same ideas about how to grow? One reason
   is that they have the same people advising them. Since Labour moved
   regeneration up the agenda in 1997, creating a spider's web of
   regional-development bodies and arming them with cash to dish out, a
   regeneration-consulting industry has sprung up. Regeneration &
   Renewal, a weekly trade magazine, lists scores of organisations happy
   to advise councils on how to bid for, and spend, the money. Following
   the advice of one such consultant, Sheffield now wants to club
   together with Leeds and Manchester to form a single "super-city". Last
   year the same outfit advised Glasgow and Edinburgh, which are engaged
   in a similar collaborative effort.

   If consultants can spread good ideas and not just recycle tired ones,
   so much the better. But the homogeneity of city-development strategies
   also owes much to the British government's enduring top-down approach
   to local government. In England a great deal of regeneration work is
   steered by nine Regional Development Agencies (RDAs), whose members
   are appointed by, and report to, central government. This has
   encouraged uniformity: "Once a minister identified a sector as
   important, it tended to trigger a herd mentality among RDAs," says
   Dermot Finch of the Centre for Cities, a think-tank. Following a
   minister's remarks about the brilliance of creative industries a few
   years ago, every regional agency began overstating the contribution of
   the creative sector to its economy. Other notable recent fads include
   biotechnology, financial services and exploiting the 2012 Olympics.

   But the RDAs are getting less herd-like, Mr Finch reckons, and local
   authorities are being given a bit more freedom. So far, cities have
   tended to follow the lead of regional agencies, partly because they
   hold important purse strings, but also because cities are inexpert at
   making their own assessment of the best way to grow. The Treasury has
   spotted this problem, and in July proposed that local authorities
   should be forced to spend more time examining the needs of their
   economies, in return for being given more say over how cash is spent.
   With luck, better-tailored, more varied strategies might emerge.
   Having long promoted regional agencies as the best means of
   regenerating deprived areas, it would be good if the government put
   some power back into the hands of the regeneratees themselves.


   A choice of migration policies 

   THOSE setting migration policy in rich countries face an almost
   impossible task. The demands of demography and economics--shrinking
   and ageing workforces, a growing shortage of people to fill jobs
   requiring both high and low skills, and increasingly flexible and open
   economies--all point to more migration. Moreover, within the European
   Union workers from the 12 countries that have joined in the past few
   years will soon have the legal right to live and work in any part of
   the union. On the other hand, voters in many rich countries seem
   increasingly hostile to immigration, which suggests that politicians
   may find it more and more difficult to allow immigration to continue
   at its current high level.

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

                      Work is here, but where is home?

   If only there were some means of getting all the benefits of migration
   but none of the costs. That is the thinking behind the latest solution
   now being promoted: circular migration. Europe's commissioner for
   justice and home affairs, Franco Frattini, wants to see more temporary
   migrants in the EU. For the highly skilled, he suggests a blue card
   (similar to America's green one) to ease the temporary entry of
   professionals and their families into Europe. Foreign workers with the
   most skills make up just 1.7% of the workforce, about half the rate in
   America and far less than in Canada or Australia, and competition for
   them is getting more intense as some of the brightest head to China
   and other parts of Asia. A blue card would at least make it clear to
   migrant professionals that they would be welcome. On the other hand,
   highly skilled workers go in search of dynamic economies, along with
   the high pay and bright careers they offer, and a blue card would do
   nothing to bring more dynamism to Europe.

   What of the less skilled? Mr Frattini points to a pilot project in
   Spain over the past two years in which Moroccans--especially
   women--have been brought in to do specific jobs on farms and in hotels
   for a few months at a time and then sent home again. Contracts are
   drawn up beforehand, travel is part-funded by the EU, everything is
   above board, and so far every migrant has gone back as agreed. As a
   result, 10,000 Moroccan workers did not have to run the risk of taking
   a patera across the Strait of Gibraltar. They were able to send
   remittances home but put no strain on Spain's public services. Mr
   Frattini wants to launch another pilot programme in his native Italy,
   where southern farmers might recruit workers from Egypt or Tunisia.
   Moldova and Ukraine want to get involved in similar schemes.

   A new kind of Gastarbeiter...

   If the projects work (one in Corsica was less successful), Mr Frattini
   would like to scale them up, with member countries eventually setting
   import quotas for foreign labour. The EU is planning to establish job
   centres in north Africa, beginning with one in Mali, to offer a legal
   route to jobs in Europe, and also provide some language training.

   But this part of what Mr Frattini and others call circular migration
   has been tried before and seems unlikely to bring the hoped-for
   benefits. Germany's Gastarbeiter scheme began in 1955, drawing workers
   first from southern Europe and north Africa and then Turkey. Something
   similar was done in France and the Netherlands, mostly with workers
   from north Africa. America imported Mexican farm labourers under its
   Bracero programme.

   The trouble is that such a dirigiste design is not well suited to
   today's liberal democracies and their flexible labour markets. And
   unless schemes are tightly regulated and the exit of workers is
   enforced by law, everybody has an interest in keeping the supposedly
   termporary workers in place. Employers would much prefer not to have
   to train new people every six months, and workers want to keep their
   jobs or move on to better ones. Many of the guest workers who arrived
   in northern Europe from Turkey and north Africa in the 1960s and 1970s
   never left, and eventually brought their families to live with them
   too. The old joke that there is nothing so permanent as a temporary
   migrant has more than a grain of truth in it.

   It might be possible to create financial incentives for migrants to
   leave at the end of their contract period. Co-operation between the
   governments of the host and the sending countries would be essential,
   says Mr Frattini. And migrants could be policed more tightly with the
   aid of new technology: ID cards, databases with biometric details,
   systems like E-verify in America that allow employers to check whether
   workers are authorised to be in the country. Proponents of circular
   migration admit that it would entail a loss of privacy.

   The biggest problem, though, is that people who expect to be packed
   off home after six months will be seen as second-class residents, and
   will have less incentive to integrate with their hosts. Why learn the
   language or adopt local habits and values for just a few months?
   Locals, for their part, are likely to view temporary labourers with
   the same sort of hostility as longer-term immigrants.

   When migration is made legal and easy, many migrants choose to go home
   after a year or two. Easily crossed borders allow people to become
   what some researchers call "pendulum migrants", those who split their
   year between two different countries. This is already a
   well-established habit in rich countries. Growing numbers of wealthy
   Germans, Britons or Nordics spend parts of the year somewhere sunny
   and then go home again. Perhaps more of this sort of movement could be
   encouraged, with rich countries offering workers multi-entry visas
   valid for several years at a time.

   Yet any sort of circular migration brings challenges of integration.
   Faster movements of people, combined with technology--cable television
   piping entertainment from the sending country, cheap phone and video
   calls back home--slow the rate at which migrants adopt their host
   country's language, values and identity. Migration, suggests Mr
   Moudden in Rabat, "is changing our whole understanding of citizenship,
   of the nation".

   In the past a third-generation migrant, for example in America, would
   have been expected to have shed much of his grandparents' identity.
   Academics reckoned that a second-generation migrant would be fluent in
   his host country's language but would use his mother tongue at home.
   By the third generation descendents of migrants had usually swapped to
   English alone. That pattern may be changing as migrants feel loyalty
   to more than one country. Moroccans in Europe, for example, even
   third- and fourth-generation ones, are encouraged by the government in
   Rabat to identify with the north African country. All are granted
   irrevocable Moroccan citizenship under the constitution, even as
   European countries, notably the Netherlands, are turning against the
   idea of their nationals holding dual citizenship. The incentives for
   Morocco are clear: it wants citizens abroad to remit funds, to invest
   back home and to support its political ambitions. "We look at how the
   Jews in America do it, how that community has the ability to maintain
   ties with Israel and be good Americans, that is how we want it," says
   Mr Moudden.

   ...and of citizenship

   The idea of dual identities may be unsettling for some--in France, for
   example, all citizens are considered French--but governments of
   sending countries increasingly want close ties with their migrs.
   Hyphenated migrants like Italian-Americans and African-Americans may
   become more widespread in other countries too. As India, China,
   Ethiopia and others grow more intent on tapping their diaspora for
   remittances and other support, migrants, even several generations on,
   may come under greater pressure to retain some of their old identity.

   Conversely, the governments of receiving countries, especially in
   Europe, are doing far more to encourage migrants to absorb the values
   and habits of their host societies, giving up on an idea of
   multiculturalism that left ethnic groups free to preserve their
   languages and habits as they wished. In Britain a newly formed Justice
   Ministry is planning to draw up a statement of British values to which
   all residents might be expected to subscribe. In Britain, the
   Netherlands, Australia and many other countries, those applying for
   citizenship are expected to demonstrate their knowledge of their host
   society by passing an exam. France's Mr Sarkozy wants to inculcate
   French values into all French nationals.

   When France takes up the rotating presidency of the EU in 2008 Mr
   Sarkozy plans to launch a campaign for the promotion of "European
   values". More countries will push the idea of a "contract for
   citizenship", suggests Gregory Maniatis, a migration expert in New
   York, under which migrants will have to learn the language and way of
   life of their host country.

   These rival pressures on migrants' identity are likely to get stronger
   and more complex as patterns of migration change, with people moving
   greater distances and settling among different ethnic, religious and
   cultural groups. Danes in Sweden or Albanians in Greece have little
   trouble integrating into the relatively familiar societies next door.
   Even Poles in Ireland prosper, perhaps thanks to the incomers' good
   standard of education and skill and the shared Catholic faith. But
   Iraqis in Sweden, Somalis in Canada or Pakistanis in Norway typically
   find integration harder. Migrants who preserve--or even develop for
   the first time, perhaps as second-generation immigrants--a strong
   religious sense that cuts across any national loyalty may be the
   hardest of all to assimilate in broadly secular Western societies.

   The touchiest question these days is how best to help Muslims to
   integrate into Western countries. Providing a decent education,
   offering language training, enforcing anti-discrimination laws to
   ensure access to jobs and discouraging ghettos are all tried and
   trusted methods to help any migrant to feel more at home. The lesson
   from America, Britain and elsewhere is that the more highly skilled
   people settle in very quickly and that many of the lower-skilled also
   catch up eventually.

   But tackling an extremist minority, or its sympathisers, is quite
   another matter. Specific initiatives to encourage better co-operation
   with moderate Muslim countries such as Morocco, which are as worried
   as host countries in the West that their diaspora could become
   radicalised, may be worth trying. Deploying moderate imams and Muslim
   scholars to counter extremist propaganda within some Islamic migrant
   communities might also be helpful. Taking care that anti-terrorist
   efforts do not vilify Muslims in Western countries is self-evidently
   sensible.

   Yet it is worth remembering that over the years democracies on both
   sides of the Atlantic have managed to absorb large numbers of migrants
   from diverse backgrounds. Robert Putnam, an academic at Harvard, is
   worried that greater diversity in rich countries may mean a short-term
   decline in what he calls social capital--trust, co-operation, shared
   values--within those countries. He points to research in America
   showing that greater diversity--usually in areas with high rates of
   immigration--is often associated with more fear of crime and other
   social problems.

   But Mr Putnam also points to the experience of once divided
   institutions in America, such as the army, where people of different
   backgrounds, with some encouragement, have learned to integrate well.
   And he considers the example of immigrants who came to America a
   century ago, including those of different religious beliefs, such as
   Russian Jews and Polish Catholics, who went on to share social capital
   in the same way as anybody else.

   There is evidence that foreigners are still following that model. For
   example, a survey in America by the Pew Hispanic Centre shows that the
   vast majority (94%) of Hispanic adults in the country who were born of
   immigrant parents claim to be fluent English speakers. It may take a
   few decades for rich countries to integrate newcomers, but history
   suggests that it will happen before too long.


   [3]Buy a PDF of this complete special report, including all graphics,
   for saving or one-click printing.

   The Economist can supply standard or customised reprints of special
   reports. For more information and to place an order online, please
   visit the [4]Rights and Syndication website.


   [3]Buy a PDF of this complete quarterly, including all graphics, for
   saving or one-click printing.

   Reprints

   Reprints are available should you wish to order extra copies of the
   quarterly. Please send your request to the relevant region:

   Worldwide (excluding North America):

   Rights and Syndication Department
   26 Red Lion Square
   London
   WC1R 4HQ
   United Kingdom

   Tel: +44 (0)20 7576 8000
   Fax: +44 (0)20 7576 8492
   E-mail: [4]rights@economist.com

   US and Canada only:

   Gail Randall

   Tel: +1 416 438 7657
   Toll free: +1 866 448 4464
   Fax: +1 416 438 6459
   Toll free fax: +1 866 661 6686
   E-mail: [5]economist@lettscanada.com

   Corporate offers and customised reprints

   For corporate reprint orders of 500 or more and customisation options,
   please contact the Rights and Syndication Department in the relevant
   region:

   Worldwide (excluding North America):

   Rights and Syndication Department
   26 Red Lion Square
   London
   WC1R 4HQ
   United Kingdom

   Tel: +44 (0)20 7576 8000
   Fax: +44 (0)20 7576 8492
   E-mail: [6]rights@economist.com

   US and Canada only:

   Gail Randall

   Tel: +1 416 438 7657
   Toll free: +1 866 448 4464
   Fax: +1 416 438 6459
   Toll free fax: +1 866 661 6686
   E-mail: [7]economist@lettscanada.com


   Rich economies gain from high levels of migration, but the benefits
   are unevenly spread

   FOR the past two decades or so, high rates of immigration into OECD
   countries have coincided with prolonged economic growth in much of the
   Western world. Consider Cobh, a bustling tourist town in southern
   Ireland which used to be famous for exporting people. Some 2.5m
   Irishmen and women embarked for America from its quayside, and its
   great and gloomy neo-gothic cathedral was paid for by remittances.

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

                                                            They need her

   Now, like the rest of Ireland, Cobh heaves with foreign workers. There
   are Poles on building sites, Latvians who own a shop selling
   dumplings, sauerkraut and other continental delicacies, a South
   African in the tourist office and another driving a taxi, Chinese in
   restaurants, a Bangladeshi managing a fishing business, and so on. A
   hotel owner says that he could not do without the migrants: when he
   recently advertised for a receptionist, none of the 200 applicants was
   Irish.

   Migration can be both a consequence and a cause of economic
   well-being, but many people in host countries with lots of migrants
   have yet to be convinced of the economic benefits. A poll in November
   2007, for France 24, found that 55% of Spaniards consider migrants a
   boon for their economy, and so do 50% of Italians, but only 42% of
   Britons and Germans and a mere 30% of French respondents.

   Some of the hostility towards immigration seems linked to worries
   about the economy. If recession looms, locals are more afraid that
   outsiders will take their jobs or scrounge on their welfare systems.
   The last time that immigration in America was as high as it is now,
   just under a century ago, xenophobia rose as recession took hold.
   Today, amid concerns that a housing slide could lead to a general
   economic slump, American anxiety about migration is rising again. But
   the poor worry about immigration even when the economy is thriving.

   Legal migrants usually have better job prospects than illegal ones,
   and the more educated outdo the rest. Not all of them stay. Nearly a
   third of those who crossed the Atlantic to America between 1890 and
   1914--and as many as half the Spaniards and Italians--re-emigrated.
   Similarly, surveys today show that a majority of Poles in Britain plan
   to go home within a few years.

   Some migrants do better not only than those left behind but also than
   those in their destination countries. The Institute for Public Policy
   Research, a British think-tank, found in 2007 that the foreign-born of
   many ethnic groups are both more likely to have a job and to be better
   paid than the average Briton. In America, over the past century,
   studies have shown migrants' wages catching up with, and then often
   surpassing, those of average Americans. Migrants' children do well
   too. This is not surprising. Migrants need health, skills,
   determination, a willingness to take risks and some entrepreneurial
   nous to take the plunge, which marks them out as special people.

   Assuming that migrants are in work, they are bound to benefit the
   economy of the host country as a whole. Most simply, an expanding
   workforce permits faster growth. More people can do more work, and
   many migrants are young adults who are particularly productive.
   Moreover, migrants increasingly alleviate specific labour shortages in
   rich economies. Some economies could not function without foreign
   workers. In the United Arab Emirates, for instance, they make up an
   astonishing 85% of the population.

   For the moment few other countries rely so heavily on outsiders (see
   chart 2), but in a number of rich countries, including Britain and
   America, foreigners typically make up 10-15% of the labour force and
   their share is rising. Around half of the new jobs created in Britain
   today are filled by migrants, often because they have skills that
   locals lack (from plumbing to banking) or because natives scorn the
   work (from picking fruit to caring for the elderly).

   Low jobless rates in Ireland, Sweden, Britain, America and other
   countries with high migration suggest that, so far, foreigners are not
   squeezing out natives. Migrants also help to create jobs, because a
   good supply of labour encourages those with capital to invest more.
   For example, the hotel owner in Cobh, knowing he can find affordable
   staff, has added an extension with extra rooms. In contrast, countries
   where migrants have been kept at arm's length, such as Germany,
   complain about a chronic shortage of skilled workers such as
   engineers, scientists or programmers.

   Just say the word

   Foreign workers are often more flexible than native ones, too. Having
   already moved from Mexico to California, say, they are probably
   willing to take a job in Chicago. Migrant labour helps to keep
   economies on an even keel. At times of strong growth, an influx of
   workers reduces the risk of wage pressures and rising inflation. If
   growth weakens, migrants can go home or move to another country, or
   choose not to come in the first place. For example, the flow of
   Mexicans to America is probably slowing as the housing slump worsens
   and construction jobs disappear.

   Migrants can also release skilled natives to do a job (for example by
   providing child care that allows a parent to go back to work). And
   they are consumers, too, renting accommodation and buying goods and
   services. The owner of the off-licence in Cobh is delighted by his
   Polish customers, who are fond of bison grass vodka and east European
   lager. Cobh's supermarket, fast-food restaurants and other shops are
   flourishing too.

   Quantifying the impact of all this is tricky. A 2007 report by
   PricewaterhouseCoopers concluded that a surge in migration has helped
   to lift Britain's growth rate above its long-term trend. Alexandros
   Zavos, of the Hellenic Migration Policy Institute in Athens, reckons
   that immigration into Greece has recently added as much as 1.5-2.0% to
   its GDP every year. For countries that have long had high rates of
   immigration, such as America, sustained economic growth partly
   reflects an ever-growing workforce.

   Sceptics say that migration may boost the economy as a whole, but on a
   per-head basis the benefits for the natives are less impressive.
   Migrationwatch, an anti-migration group in Britain, reckons that for
   the average Briton the inflow of foreigners provides just a few extra
   pence a week. Roy Beck, an anti-immigrant activist in America,
   suggests that countries with ageing workforces should try to make
   their economies less labour-dependent. His country is "addicted to
   foreign labour", he says, and more capital investment and more
   training for locals would reduce the need for foreign workers. But
   some jobs (such as cleaning or nursing) cannot be sent abroad or
   mechanised. And even if more natives can be trained to do highly
   skilled work, shrinking native workforces in many countries could mean
   economic contraction.

   Some of the sceptics' arguments touch raw political nerves,
   particularly when it comes to the least well-off natives in the host
   country. In America the share of national income that is going to the
   poorest has been shrinking in recent decades. Inequality has increased
   and the real wages of the least skilled have fallen. Circumstantial
   evidence suggests that foreigners, who typically work in less skilled
   jobs, might be partly to blame. According to one estimate, they make
   up around 28% of legal construction workers in America and over a
   third of maids and housekeepers. If the illegal workers could be
   counted, the figures would probably be much higher still.

   Cheap and cheerful

   Do migrants make life worse for poor natives? Studies comparing wages
   in American cities with and without lots of foreigners suggest that
   they make little difference to the income of the poorest. George
   Borjas of Harvard University, who compared wages for different kinds
   of jobs where migrants most obviously compete with natives, estimated
   that immigration in America in the two decades to 2000 may have kept
   wages 3% lower than they would otherwise have been. For the least
   skilled the difference may have been as much as 8%. But Mr Borjas also
   calculated how a rise in the number of migrants might have encouraged
   the creation of jobs, which reduced the impact on wages.

   This tallies with the outcome of natural experiments in recent
   history, such as the influx of 610,000 Russian Jews into Israel in the
   early 1990s, the return of 900,000 Frenchmen from Algeria in 1962 or
   the homecoming of 600,000 Portuguese after the collapse of their
   empire in Africa in 1974-76. Each time the influx of workers expanded
   the workforce and wages dropped slightly, but subsequently recovered.
   Given prolonged immigration, argues Steven Camorata of the Centre for
   Immigration Studies, the impact is sustained. He thinks that "it's the
   poorest 10% [of Americans] who seem to lose out, cutting their wages
   by perhaps 5%."

   Worse, say the sceptics, migration may limit poor natives' chances of
   moving up to better-paid jobs. With changing economies that reward
   skills, it is anyway getting harder to move up the ladder from
   low-wage jobs to better-paid ones. Now migrants, especially those with
   skills and drive, are making life even harder for the weakest natives.

   A second worry is that migrants will put a strain on public services
   and the tax system. It is in schools, public housing and doctors'
   surgeries that natives come face to face with migrants and it is often
   at the local and state level, where responsibility for such services
   usually lies, that hostility to migrants seems strongest. Local
   councils in Britain complain that clinics and schools are overloaded
   and central government is slow to dish out help, and local police in
   areas with many immigrants blame foreigners for a rise in crime.

   In Greece, as new illegal immigrants arrive at remote spots on the
   border, officials complain that they lack funds for policing and
   social services. The prefect of Samos laments that "we are given a
   short bedsheet to cover our body." In America hostility to migrants is
   greatest where they have recently been arriving in large numbers, not
   where their absolute numbers are highest (near the borders or in big
   cities, such as New York). Several states have passed tough new laws
   banning illegal migrants from using their public services.

   But crowding, although likely to cause resentment, results from the
   unexpected arrival of those migrants, with bureaucracies taking time
   to allocate resources to the right places. In itself, it does not
   prove that migrants are a drag on public services as a whole. Indeed,
   migrants often make a large contribution to the public purse. When a
   foreign worker first arrives, usually as a young adult, fully educated
   and in good health, he makes few demands on schools or clinics. A
   legal immigrant will pay taxes just like any native; even an illegal
   one will contribute something (if only through the tax on those
   bottles of bison grass vodka). If the immigrant stays on (and quite a
   few do not), the benefits will diminish as he ages, but at least he
   has given his host country a breathing space.

   To complicate matters, highly skilled migrants contribute much more to
   tax and social-security systems than do less skilled ones. A study in
   America by the National Research Council suggests that migrants with
   an education beyond high school contribute an average of $105,000 to
   the tax coffers over their lifetime. By contrast, the least educated
   migrants are reckoned to leave the taxman with a $89,000 hole. But
   migrants as a whole, in the long term and counting the contribution of
   their children when they grow up and get jobs, are not a drain on
   public services. For rich countries with ageing workforces in
   particular, gains from importing the young, the energetic and those
   willing to take risks comfortably outweigh the costs.


   Intellectual property: A new scheme will solicit comments via the
   internet to improve the vetting of patent applications

                                                             Lucy Vigrass

                                Lucy Vigrass

   PATENT examiners, who scrutinise applications for patents and
   determine whether they ought to be granted or not, are used to poring
   over diagrams of complicated contraptions. But now the patent system
   itself, just as complex in its own way, is under increasing scrutiny.

   The number of applications has soared in recent years, but patent
   offices have been unable to keep up--resulting in huge backlogs and
   lengthy delays. Standards have slipped and in America the number of
   lawsuits over contested patents has shot up (see chart). In an attempt
   to fix these problems, the United States Patent and Trademark Office
   (USPTO), Britain's Intellectual Property Office (IPO) and the European
   Patent Office are evaluating a radical change: opening the process up
   to internet-based collaboration.

   The scheme, known as "Peer to Patent", was created by Beth Simone
   Noveck, a professor at New York Law School. It applies an unusual form
   of peer review to a process which traditionally involves only a patent
   applicant and an examiner. Anybody who is interested may comment on a
   patent application via the internet. The scheme was launched as a
   one-year pilot programme in America on June 15th. Sean Dennehey of
   Britain's IPO, who sits on the project's advisory board, says his
   organisation will follow suit by the end of the year. The project is
   being supported by big technology firms including IBM, Microsoft and
   Hewlett-Packard.

   An efficient patent system is essential for the promotion of
   innovation. Patents give inventors a temporary monopoly on a new idea
   in return for disclosing how it works, so that others can subsequently
   build upon it. But if a patent is granted for something that is not
   novel (people are already doing it), or is obvious (any Tom, Dick, or
   Harry in the field could think it up), it can hamper innovation by
   turning a widely used invention or process into one person's monopoly.
   The trouble is that examiners cannot always tell when a patent is
   unwarranted.

   To prove that an invention is not novel, the patent examiner must find
   evidence that others have already done everything claimed in the
   patent, a quest known as a "prior art" search. Prior art is also the
   basis for determining whether some new step claimed in the invention
   is obvious--and therefore not worthy of a patent. But prior art can be
   elusive. It might be buried in an obscure technical journal, in
   conference slides, or in a doctoral thesis tucked away in a university
   library. It could even be embodied in a machine taken off the market
   years earlier. Finding prior art is hardest in fields where patenting
   is fairly new, such as software, biotechnology, financial services and
   business methods.

   Examiners are usually well versed in the technology they review and
   are adept at searching their office's collections of patents, along
   with other databases. But given the specialisation of modern science
   and technology, they cannot be expected to keep abreast of all the
   technical literature. To complicate matters further, says Jon Dudas,
   the director of the USPTO, patent applications have become more
   complex as well as more numerous: some applications contain thousands
   of claims. A biotech patent may be accompanied by gigabytes of
   computer data. And a quarter of the applications handled by the USPTO
   contain no references to prior art, adds Mr Dudas, while another
   quarter contain more than 25 references. This makes it hard for
   examiners to decide which ones deserve the closest scrutiny.

   There have already been several attempts to overhaul the system. Court
   cases and regulatory changes have altered it in various ways in recent
   years, but this has not done away with the perception that the system
   is in crisis, nor silenced those calling for further reform. In
   "Innovation and its Discontents", a book published in 2004, Adam Jaffe
   and Josh Lerner argue that some reforms have even made things worse.
   And "Patent Failure", a forthcoming book by James Bessen and Michael
   Meurer, argues that America's system does inventors more harm than
   good. Other critics have called for the elimination of patents on
   software, business processes and human genes.

   Several independent outfits already supplement the official
   patent-granting institutions. Among them is Patent Lens, run by
   CAMBIA, a non-profit research institute, which tries to make it easier
   to track down relevant patents in a particular field. Similarly,
   PatentFizz is a website that makes it easy to find out about
   particular patents, comment on them and even add references to prior
   art. In both cases the aim is to open the working of the patent system
   up to greater scrutiny.

   Peer to Patent builds on these ideas, especially the notion that
   practitioners and researchers within a particular field collectively
   have all the relevant prior art at their fingertips already. All the
   patent office needs to do, therefore, is to get that community to tell
   it what it already knows. Peer to Patent does this using the latest
   web-based collaboration tools, such as voting and tagging, which can
   harness the collective knowledge of a large number of users.

   The USPTO wants YOU

   The USPTO's pilot scheme will scrutinise 250 patent applications in a
   handful of computer-related fields, with the approval of the
   applicants. The first examples have been submitted by IBM, Intel,
   Microsoft and other technology giants. The text of each application is
   posted in full for public scrutiny, and members of the public can sign
   up to participate in the review process. They can discuss each
   application in an online forum, suggest examples of prior art, and
   vote for the prior art they consider most relevant. Messages that are
   considered off-topic can be flagged, and there are plans to allow
   participants to rate each other, so that the most highly regarded
   participants' recommendations rise to the top of the pile.

                                                             Lucy Vigrass
                                                             Lucy Vigrass

   Tagging, a common feature of many modern websites, is also used.
   Patents in new fields often sound like gobbledygook, since each
   inventor makes up his own terminology. But a user familiar with the
   field in question may realise that the invention matches something
   already in use under a different name. By adding an appropriate tag,
   that user can attract the attention of experts with a comprehensive
   knowledge of the field's prior art.

   Eventually, the ten pieces of prior art that receive most votes in the
   Peer to Patent community perusing each patent are sent to the patent
   examiner. As with conventional patent applications, examiners will
   still choose which prior art is referred to in their decision on a
   patent application, known as an "office action". But the community's
   explanations, discussion and examples will be taken into account.

   The pilot Peer to Patent scheme allows examiners and volunteer
   participants to provide feedback to refine the process. A total of 18
   measures will be used to assess the scheme and evaluate its
   effectiveness, including the number of items of prior art provided by
   the community that appear in office actions; the number of claims
   changed by applicants as a result of queries raised by the community;
   and the number of volunteer participants signed up, as well as their
   level of participation.

                                                  [spacer.gif] [gray.gif]
                                                             [spacer.gif]
      "The information provided should improve patent examiners' grasp of
                                                highly technical fields."
                                                             [spacer.gif]
                                                               [gray.gif]

   Mr Dudas says he considers Peer to Patent to be a "natural step" in
   opening up the patent system and fulfilling its original goal of
   encouraging the publication of new ideas. In Britain, Mr Dennehey
   regards Peer to Patent as a more up-to-date way for the public to
   submit observations during a patent examination, something already
   permitted by law. (In America, third parties are allowed to submit
   only prior art without comments under the current system.) Patent
   lawyers are also intrigued. Mark Costello, general patent counsel at
   Xerox, an American document-management company, says the idea has
   merit, but that he will be watching closely to see "whether it remains
   a fair and objective system after competitors enter the process".

   The scheme's immediate impact is likely to be minimal. Patent
   applicants are free to ignore the online community's discussions and
   respond only to the office action, as they always have. But if Peer to
   Patent succeeds, "we will have made the most significant improvement
   to the patent system in decades, and done a great service to the
   public and the economy," says Manny Schecter, a member of the
   project's steering committee and an intellectual-property lawyer at
   IBM.

   The hope is that Peer to Patent will reduce both uncertainty for
   inventors and unnecessary lawsuits because dodgy applications will be
   uncovered and rejected quickly. This ought to mean that patents issued
   will be stronger, leading to fewer challenges by those required to
   license them. Indirectly, the scheme could also help innovators to
   commercialise their ideas, since stronger patents will make
   patent-holders' work more attractive to investors.

   The information provided by the Peer to Patent community should also
   help patent examiners to improve their understanding of highly
   technical fields. Inventors and patent lawyers--who currently depend
   on the patent office's collection of patents and prior art when
   conducting prior-art searches--should gain, too.

   For all that, some observers are sceptical about bits of the Peer to
   Patent process. They wonder whether people will really volunteer to
   provide examples of prior art, join discussions, and so on. Ms Noveck
   cites the widespread participation in other online communities--such
   as Wikipedia, a collaborative online encyclopedia--as evidence of the
   public's desire to contribute. But although everyone knows what an
   encyclopedia is, and the pages of Wikipedia can be edited with a few
   clicks, not many people understand the patent process, or know how to
   read a patent.

   Another concern is that the people who take part in the project will
   represent vested interests--in particular, big technology firms which
   can assign staff to review patents. There are also worries about the
   possibility of tacit collusion among large patent-holders, who might
   attack individual inventors in order to keep them out of specific
   markets.

   Ms Noveck, however, is a believer in grassroots democracy. If Peer to
   Patent's goal of cleaning up the patent system was not already
   audacious enough, she thinks the project could also serve as a
   demonstration that the public, helped by technology, can participate
   more fully in its own governance. Unfortunately, Peer to Patent
   suffers from the same vulnerabilities as other democratic
   institutions. If the public engages with it earnestly, it could
   produce marvellous results. But if people tire of it and cede control
   to special interests that do not align with the public interest, Peer
   to Patent could devolve into just another prop for the status quo. The
   project's outcome, at this early stage, remains uncertain. But it is
   surely worth a try.


   Despite a growing backlash, the boom in migration has been mostly good
   for both sending and recipient countries, says Adam Roberts
   (interviewed [3]here)

                                                                  Eyevine

                                  Eyevine

   ENOCH POWELL had a point. The Conservative British politician gave
   warning, nearly four decades ago, that immigrants were causing such
   strife that "like the Roman, I seem to see the River Tiber foaming
   with much blood." That proved to be nonsense, as did his advice that
   migrants should be encouraged to leave. Had they done so, Britain and
   other rich countries that depend heavily on foreign labour would be in
   a dreadful state. But one prediction he made was spot on: that by
   about now, one in ten people in Britain would be migrants. And indeed,
   at the last count in 2005, the foreign-born made up 9.7% of the
   British population.

   By historical standards, that is high. It is a lot more than a decade
   ago, and the trend is resolutely upwards. Yet it is not dissimilar to
   that in many other rich countries, which have mostly seen equally
   rapid increases. And it is still lower than in America, where the
   proportion is now about 13%, not far off the 15% peak reached just
   before the first world war, in the previous great era of migration.
   What is particularly striking in Europe is that many countries which
   until recently had known only emigration, such as Ireland or Greece,
   are now seeing the sort of influx more typical of countries such as
   Australia and America.

   This special report will argue that both emigration and immigration
   countries, as well as the migrants themselves, have been coping
   remarkably well with this new force that is reshaping our world. Yet
   there are now signs of a serious backlash against immigration on both
   sides of the Atlantic. In 2007 activists in America smashed a bill to
   make immigration easier that had the backing of the president and the
   leaders of both big parties in Congress. In France, Nicolas Sarkozy
   won the presidential elections partly thanks to his anti-migrant
   rhetoric. But this is still a far cry from Mr Powell's doom-mongering.

   Politicians in rich countries may tinker with migration policies. They
   will certainly, under public pressure, put extra resources and energy
   into building more fences and walls to keep people out. And by making
   a connection between immigration and terrorism, they may cause their
   societies to become more heavily policed. But the basic forces driving
   migration are unlikely to ebb.

   Counting the ways

   People who cross international borders are often categorised by their
   motives, and some of these categories are seen as less desirable than
   others. Most migrants move for economic reasons, many in search of
   jobs, some to be united with relatives. Most appear to be doing so
   legally. America in 2002-06 allowed in an average of just over 1m
   legal immigrants a year who planned to settle permanently, more than
   half of them sponsored by relatives. Another 320,000 a year entered
   temporarily.

   The number of illegal migrants is by definition hard to ascertain, but
   likely to be smaller than the legal sort. The illegals also go for
   economic reasons, and they probably make up the bulk of people seen
   floating on rafts in the Mediterranean or scrabbling over the fence
   from Mexico to America. Many illegal migrants do not risk the high
   seas or physical borders but instead enter under some other guise,
   perhaps as tourists, and then stay on. In that same period of 2002-06,
   America's population is thought to have seen a net gain of 500,000
   illegal migrants every year. Within the European Union it has become
   impossible to keep a tally because people can move legally among most
   of the member countries without asking anyone. Britain, as an island,
   should find it easier than most to know how many foreigners it has
   allowed in, but its statistics on migrants have recently turned out to
   be way off the mark.

   Lastly, there are refugees and asylum-seekers, strictly defined as
   those escaping persecution but often including anybody forced to flee,
   for example from a war. According to the UN's refugee agency, at the
   close of 2006 some 10m people fell into this category. Many go through
   legal channels, applying for refugee status and then asylum. But
   others join illegal migrants in trying to reach host countries by raft
   or by jumping over a fence. Genuine refugees may have no alternative.

   The 200m question

   The number of migrants in the world today, both legal and illegal, is
   thought to total perhaps 200m (though many of the figures, even those
   used by governments, are at best educated guesses). That sounds a lot,
   but it adds up to only 3% of the world's population, so there is great
   potential for growth. Migration has turned out to be a successful
   strategy for the world's poor to make their lives a little better. Nor
   is it the very poorest who travel. You need money to move to another
   part of the world. Thus as Africa, China and other emerging countries
   become less poor, many more people can aspire to travel in search of a
   better life.

   In the 100 years to 1920, such prospects encouraged some 60m Europeans
   to uproot themselves and move to the New World. A European who crossed
   the Atlantic could expect to double his income. Today the incentives
   are even more enticing. Those who move from a poor country to a rich
   one can expect to see their income rise fivefold or more. As long as
   such differentials persist, the draw will continue.

   These days, too, demography is playing a big part in migration. Not
   every migrant is aiming for America or Europe: perhaps two in every
   five move to another poor or middle-income country. But those who go
   to the richest parts of the world do their inhabitants a favour.
   Without migrants, the greying and increasingly choosy populations in
   much of the rich world would already be on the decline today. That
   matters for their fast-changing economies, which increasingly demand
   either highly skilled workers or people willing to do unpleasant and
   tiring jobs.

   One reason why much of the world has enjoyed a sustained economic boom
   with low inflation in the past decade is that the effective global
   workforce is expanding so fast. The IMF says it has quadrupled since
   1980 as China and India have plugged their huge young populations into
   the world economy. It is likely to keep on growing, though at a slower
   pace, with a 40% increase in the world's working-age population
   forecast by 2050. According to the UN,the global stock of migrants has
   more than doubled in the past four decades. Not enough young natives
   have the right skills or motivation, so the rich must hope that
   outsiders will keep coming.

   And they will. Luckily for Europe and America, there are huge pools of
   eager workers ready to jump on the next plane, train or leaking raft
   to work abroad. This can be beneficial for their home countries as
   well, at least as long as the population is growing fast. The IMF says
   that emigration from Belize, El Salvador, Guyana and Jamaica, for
   example, may have led to higher wages and less poverty. Some Chinese
   from the heavily populated east coast are moving out, despite a
   fast-growing economy. Researchers in Africa report a recent rapid
   inflow of Chinese workers.

   If exporting brawn generally makes sense for a poor country, sending
   its better brains away may not. Most, perhaps all, poor and
   middle-income countries face chronic shortages of skilled workers. In
   South Africa, although universities churn out graduates at a fast
   clip, many well-qualified people promptly depart for Britain or
   Australia, leaving tens of thousands of jobs unfilled at home. In
   Morocco those with science and engineering degrees, computer skills
   and languages go to France, the Netherlands and Canada, whereas the
   students of literature and public administration stay at home.
   Professor Mohamed Khachami, of AMERM, a migration think-tank in Rabat,
   laments that his country lacks people to build better internet
   connections, yet Paris now has an association for Moroccan IT
   engineers. Hospitals and clinics in southern Africa struggle to cope
   with huge public-health problems as doctors and nurses pack their bags
   for jobs in the Gulf, Europe and elsewhere. It is a similar story for
   schools.

   Those in demand abroad are the hardest people to keep at home. Some
   European countries tried, and failed, to stop artisans emigrating to
   America in the early 19th century. In fact it is almost impossible to
   block the exit for the highly skilled if the lure is strong enough.
   Small countries such as Jamaica, Trinidad and Senegal have seen half
   to three-quarters of all their graduates move abroad.

   Rich countries have taken in more highly skilled migrants than ever
   before. The World Bank looked at a sample drawn from 52m migrants in
   20 rich countries in 2000 and found that 36% of them had a college
   education, a sharp rise on a decade earlier. Yet emigration of skilled
   workers may be a consequence rather than a cause of problems in the
   sending country. For example, nurses may be quitting Malawi because
   their salaries are not being paid or because hospitals are crumbling;
   entrepreneurs may be moving abroad because the business climate back
   home is wretched. Stopping emigration, even if you could, would not
   solve the problems. The nurses might still leave their jobs, the
   would-be entrepreneur might sit on his hands.

   Indeed, some argue that emigration can help to add to the stock of
   brainpower. Migrants who go abroad may spend more time studying, pick
   up more skills and experience and then bring them all home again.
   Remittances are often used to fund schooling. And the prospect of
   emigration and prosperity abroad may be an inducement for many more to
   get an education. All this suggests that the consequences of skilled
   emigration are difficult to calculate, even if they are not
   negligible.

   Governments of sending countries would do well to tackle whatever
   factors are pushing their skilled people out in the first place.
   Malawi, which exports a lot of nurses, should of course worry that it
   lacks medical staff. It is said that there are more Malawian nurses in
   Manchester than back home. But, perhaps with donors' help, more
   investment in public health could be combined with a strategy of
   training many more nurses than are needed, allowing for future
   emigration and the other benefits that brings. If migrants can be
   tempted back home, even for short spells, all the better. Ghana, for
   example, has raised wages for some medical staff and offered
   incentives to the highest-skilled to come back. Money is not the only
   concern: staff are also allowed parts of the year to work abroad,
   giving a boost to their careers.

   There is no guarantee that migration will carry on at record rates. It
   is possible to seal borders tightly enough to keep more people out if
   those inside are ready to pay the price. An earlier period of great
   migration came to an end, for example, when America some 90 years ago
   shut its doors to immigrants for a while.

   But easier movement of capital and goods has helped to make the world
   a much richer place in the past decade or two, and more human mobility
   has both created wealth and helped to share it out more equally. The
   billions sent around the world in remittances each year is testimony
   to that. The price of keeping people out would be high.

   And unexpected things keep happening. Wars can suddenly displace
   millions of people who may start off as refugees but end up as
   migrants. Some people think that climate change might force tens of
   millions of people to get moving within just a few decades. Misguided
   policies, a backlash over terrorism or a failure to integrate migrants
   could all cause serious problems. All the same, it seems clear, 40
   years on, that Mr Powell got everything but his sums completely wrong.


   Why the Bank of England may cut rates next month

   FORGET BC and AD. For the financial markets, the date dividing two
   eras is August 9th, when the financial markets seized up. Before then
   the City was sure that the base rate would rise this autumn to 6%.
   Instead, the Bank of England's rate-setters decided for the third
   month running to keep it at 5.75%, when they met on October 4th. As
   far as the City is concerned, the question now is not whether the base
   rate is coming down but when.

   The do-nothing decision by the bank's monetary-policy committee (MPC)
   may seem cautious, given that in America the Federal Reserve has
   already cut interest rates by half a percentage point. But the
   American economy has been weakening because of a sharp downturn in the
   housing market. In contrast, the British economy has been in fine
   fettle until this summer, not least because of the continuing buoyancy
   of house prices.

   The momentum of GDP growth before the financial turmoil of the past
   two months was underlined in recent official figures, which tweaked it
   up from 3.0% to 3.1% in the year to the second quarter. When the
   number-crunchers have completed all their revisions, recent growth may
   turn out to have been as fast as 3.5%, according to the bank. That's
   uncomfortably higher than the trend rate of 2.5-2.75% at a time when
   the economy has been operating at around full capacity.

   Already, however, there are signs that the economy is starting to
   slow. This week's surveys of purchasing managers indicated that the
   manufacturing and services sectors, though still performing well,
   weakened in September. A report from the Confederation of British
   Industry painted a particularly gloomy picture for the
   financial-services sector's prospects over the next three months.

   The housing market has remained surprisingly perky, but strains are
   beginning to appear there too. The number of mortgages approved for
   house purchase declined from 115,000 in July to 109,000 in August. In
   another sign that the market is slowing, house prices fell last month
   by 0.6% according to HBOS, a bank.

   More pain is likely, as credit conditions tighten because of the
   financial crisis. In the mortgage market, borrowers seeking two-year
   fixed-rate loans worth 95% of a home's value are now paying sharply
   more than those who need to finance only 75%. And companies have been
   hit hard: those taking out new loans at interest rates fixed for up to
   a year were charged 7.63% in August, up from 6.63% in June.

   As a result, the economic outlook is darkening. According to The
   Economist's poll of forecasters (see [3]article), GDP growth is now
   expected to slow quite substantially, from 2.9% this year to 2.1% in
   2008. The outcome could be even grimmer. Growth will slip to 1.4% next
   year, says CEBR, an outfit that keeps a close eye on the City, whose
   fortunes have taken a turn for the worse. As further evidence emerges
   that the economy is going to slow sharply, the MPC is likely to cut
   rates sooner rather than later. Relief may come as early as November.


   Nuclear power draws nearer as renewables retreat

   THE timing was impeccable. As the first hints of winter sent
   temperatures falling this week, British Energy, whose eight nuclear
   power stations can meet a fifth of Britain's electricity demand, said
   on October 22nd that it had discovered a technical problem in one of
   its reactors. Worried that three similar reactors might be similarly
   afflicted, it decided to shut two of them down and to delay restarting
   the other, which was offline for maintenance.

   British Energy shares dived 8% that day and short-term power prices
   jumped by about 15%. Unplanned outages have been commoner of late.
   Another of the firm's reactors is also offline due to an "electrical
   fault". Last year cracked boiler pipes forced a long shutdown at two
   other sites.

   For the nuclear lobby, such technical difficulties highlight the
   urgency of immediately replacing Britain's doddery old reactors, many
   of which date from the 1960s and 1970s. Environmentalists, most of
   whom oppose nuclear power, see things differently. They argue that
   British Energy's troubles are evidence that nuclear power is an
   unreliable technology that has no place in a modern energy mix.

   Unfortunately for greens, ministers seem to agree with the
   atom-splitters. Impressed by arguments that nuclear energy is a proven
   source of low-carbon power, and worried about the dependence on
   foreign fossil fuels caused by the decline of North Sea oil and gas,
   the government has been preparing the ground for a nuclear revival. An
   ostentatious public consultation on the issue finished this month, and
   some official pronouncement is expected in the next few months.
   Meanwhile EDF Energy, a French company, has pledged to build a plant
   by 2017, with three more to follow.

   Environmentalists fret that new nuclear plants will come at the
   expense of eco-friendly technologies such as wind and wave power. On
   October 23rd those fears seemed to be confirmed. The Guardian
   newspaper published extracts from a leaked document suggesting that
   Gordon Brown was trying to wriggle out of a pledge made by Tony Blair,
   his predecessor as prime minister, that 20% of European energy
   consumption would be met from renewable sources by 2020. Civil
   servants described the target as "expensive" and said that it faced
   "severe practical difficulties". That was a diplomatic way to speak of
   a target that Britain, which gets 2% of its energy from renewables
   now, has little chance of meeting. Malcolm Wicks, the energy minister,
   points out that the target is for Europe as a whole, and suggests
   Britain might manage 10-15% by the deadline.

   Stung by accusations that it is diluting its trumpeted commitment to
   greenery, the government details its support of all sorts of expensive
   schemes. A multi-million-pound competition to build a "clean" coal
   power plant that would trap and store carbon emissions in depleted oil
   fields is to be launched in November. Subsidies for renewable energy
   will be rejigged in the hope of encouraging technologies, such as
   solar or wave power, that are not yet competitive. But that cuts
   little ice with experts, most of whom agree that the government is
   unwilling to spend the money required to give renewables a big boost.
   "It is wedded to nuclear power," says Robin Webster of Friends of the
   Earth, a green group.

   Yet even if ministers row back on renewables, they may not get the new
   nuclear plants they want. Decades of decline have left the industry
   short of engineers. Economics is a problem too. The government insists
   that any nuclear stations must be built without state aid. But nuclear
   plants--with their huge capital costs and glacial start-up times--are
   a dicey proposition in Britain's liberalised electricity market, where
   prices fluctuate rapidly. Ministers are trying to make planning rules
   more nuclear-friendly, and hope that tighter carbon-emission limits
   will help nuclear energy shine by comparison with fossil-fuel plants.
   But Martin Brough of Oxera, an economics consultancy, thinks that more
   will be needed, most probably a guaranteed minimum carbon price. That
   would be tantamount to stifling the markets, and reneging on another
   energy promise.


   One suitor has been chosen, but others are forcing their way into the
   church

   AT FIRST it proceeded at a glacial pace, but the sale of Northern Rock
   has now picked up unseemly haste. On November 25th Richard Branson's
   Virgin Group was chosen as preferred bidder for the stricken bank,
   which is kept alive only by public money. The Sunday decision caught
   many by surprise, not least rival bidders who were either due to
   present their bids to the bank and the government in coming days, or
   had done so that weekend and had no inkling that things would move so
   fast.

   Such haste at this late stage is unlikely to serve the interest of
   taxpayers, who have lent over 20 billion ($41 billion) to the
   mortgage lender since it came cap in hand to the Bank of England in
   September. That was the time for urgent action, and Alistair Darling,
   the chancellor of the exchequer, could have moved far faster to sort
   out the mess.

   Instead he allowed the wretched affair to drag on. The delay has
   strengthened the hand of investors, including some hedge funds that
   have been busily extending their stakes. They are now threatening to
   veto any takeover that they reckon undervalues the bank--an audacious
   proposition considering that Northern Rock would have folded but for
   the support of the public purse.

   Bryan Sanderson, the newly-appointed chairman of Northern Rock, says
   Virgin was chosen because it offered something to all
   "stakeholders"--which sounds rather worrying. Sir Richard has proposed
   putting 200m of his own money together with Virgin Money, his
   financial-services business, into Northern Rock. Half of the 1.3
   billion of cash he proposes to raise would come from current
   shareholders through a deeply discounted new rights issue. He also
   promised to pay off 11 billion of the central bank's loan
   immediately, and the rest within three years.

   Purely on its own merits, the bargain is a poor one for taxpayers, for
   their risk is barely diminished: as all bankers know, it is not the
   first but the last pound of a loan that is hard to get back. Even if
   the government gets a commercial interest rate, it is still assuming a
   risk that the private sector is patently shunning. When judged against
   competing bids, the deal looks even worse. A rival proposal from J.C.
   Flowers, an American private-equity firm, for example, promised to
   repay more of the Bank of England's loan at once.

   The sudden rush to advance Virgin's case is ill-advised, however
   tempting the political arguments might be for getting Northern Rock
   off the front pages. If taxpayers are to take their chances on a
   private-sector rescue, a proper auction makes more sense than a
   shotgun wedding. A threat by big investors to reject Virgin's offer is
   now forcing the government and Northern Rock's board to think again.
   Several bidders are battering at the church doors with offers that may
   prove better value for shareholders and taxpayers alike. They should
   be let in.


   Developing countries attract migrants too

   THE complaints sound familiar. Foreigners steal our jobs. Aliens cause
   a rise in crime. The corrupt interior ministry cannot cope. The border
   is ineffective and deporting illegal migrants does not work: removed
   by train, they return on foot. Outsiders put a strain on housing,
   especially for the poor, and on hospitals and schools. But employers
   do not care: farmers want cheap labour, and rich families need skilful
   foreign gardeners and housekeepers.

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

                        Turfed out of Little London 

   Residents of Soweto, or other urban areas in South Africa, are likely
   to grumble about foreigners in the same way as in rich countries. The
   makwerekwere, as African foreigners are insultingly known, are
   attracted by South Africa's relative wealth. Some Tanzanians talk
   longingly of Johannesburg as "Little London". One in four Little
   Londoners may now be a foreigner. Zimbabwean teachers, forced out by
   hunger and repression, work as security guards and shop assistants.
   Congolese lawyers toil as waiters and chefs.

   In 2005 two World Bank researchers, Mr Ratha and William Shaw,
   estimated that two in five migrants--about 78m people--were outside
   rich countries. But who in the poor world is counting? South Africa's
   government does not know how many foreigners it has (2m? 5m? more?).
   Mexico, India or Turkey cannot be sure either. Total numbers are
   skewed by those displaced by the collapse of the Soviet Union or who
   became de facto migrants when borders moved.

   Ms Newland of the Migration Policy Institute in Washington, DC, says
   the flows between poor and mid-income countries are huge but
   "desperately understudied". One reason why outsiders pay little
   attention is that most poor migrants do not move far. Roughly half of
   all South-East Asian migrants are thought to have remained in the
   neighbourhood, and nearly two-thirds of migrants from eastern Europe
   and Central Asia have stayed in their own region. Nearly 70% of
   migrants from sub-Saharan Africa remain on their continent. West
   African countries do not limit immigration from their neighbours, so
   lots of people cross borders, for example from Ghana to oil-rich
   Nigeria.

   Some middle-income countries, such as Morocco, Mexico, Turkey and
   Libya, are well-trodden transit routes with migrant populations of
   their own. A senior civil servant in Morocco laments that his country
   is "between the hammer and the anvil" of Africa and Europe. Others,
   like India, Russia, South Africa and Argentina, are destinations in
   their own right. With all this come the same opportunities and threats
   as in the rich world. Chile imports doctors and maids from Peru,
   raising worries about a brain drain. Zambians fret about an invasion
   by Chinese, whose numbers in Africa are said to be between 80,000 to
   400,000, many in oil-rich countries such as Sudan, Nigeria and Angola.

   Remittances from one low-income country to another probably help to
   cut poverty. A 2006 study of 4,700 households by the Southern African
   Migration Project found that 40% of Zimbabwean households received
   some money from this source. How much is hard to measure, but a World
   Bank estimate for 2006 gives a range for remittances among poor
   countries of $17 billion-55 billion.

   Some middle-income countries are extraordinarily welcoming. Venezuela,
   awash with oil revenues, even allows Colombians to use its
   social-welfare system. Argentina has lifted most restrictions on
   immigration from South America, again guaranteeing access to public
   health and education, even for illegal migrants. But many other
   countries show signs of xenophobia. On one occasion a newspaper in
   Morocco gave warning that "black locusts"--African migrants--were
   invading. Russian authorities, especially in Moscow, regularly throw
   out traders from Georgia and elsewhere in the Caucasus. Libya
   occasionally expels African migrants.

   Many poor people are drawn to somewhat less poor countries in the hope
   of finding work, just as they are to rich countries. But with war,
   repression and economic collapse, push factors are much stronger in
   the poor world. The invasion of Iraq in 2003, and the violence since,
   has uprooted more than 4m Iraqis. Some 95% of them have remained in
   the Middle East, including 2m in hard-pressed Jordan and Syria.
   Sweden, with an admirable history of taking in refugees, has welcomed
   23,600 Iraqis, but few other rich countries have followed suit. Some
   of the displaced are beginning to return home. Since the Taliban were
   booted from power in 2001, Afghanistan has seen the voluntary return
   of at least 3.2m people from Pakistan, Iran and elsewhere.

   Climate of fear

   Could a changing climate cause similarly big ebbs and flows?
   Scientists agree that average temperatures are likely to rise
   significantly by the end of this century. Rainfall patterns are
   already shifting. Those in marginal areas, for example on the edges of
   deserts, will suffer most, along with those in countries with the
   least resources to adapt. The sea is also rising, which might mean
   floods on vulnerable coasts. Some 12% of Africa's urban population,
   and 18% of Asia's, live in low-lying coastal zones and may be exposed
   to extreme weather or floods. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
   Change suggested in 2007 that millions may face water shortages,
   hunger and flooding as a result of climate shifts. Some would migrate,
   although probably over a period of time.

   Environmental change has already set off some migration. Because the
   Sahel region gets much less rain than it did a century ago, farmers in
   Mali are moving to the cities. According to the UN Environment
   Programme, over the past four decades the desert in Sudan has crept
   south by about 100km and forests have disappeared. Rainfall in north
   Darfur, in Sudan, has dropped by a third over the past 80 years.

   All this has displaced people and, some believe, encouraged war.
   Morocco's government is anxious about it. "There is a direct impact on
   migration. You see people leaving sub-Saharan Africa in search of more
   habitable land," says Mr Ameur, the minister for Moroccans abroad.
   Abdelhay Moudden, a migration expert in Rabat, suggests that the first
   to leave may be struggling farmers: "If the urban economy cannot
   absorb them, then it may also push international migration."

   A 2005 report by the Institute for Environment and Human Security in
   Bonn suggested that rising seas and extreme weather, among other
   things, could uproot 150m people by 2050. Ms Newland of the Migration
   Policy Institute cautions against talking up the figures, but thinks
   that if drought and rising temperatures cause crop yields to fall in,
   say, the Sahel, they will probably encourage migration. If climate
   change were to cause wars or spread disease, that could compound the
   effects. Another reason, then, to switch to low-energy light bulbs.


   Offshore technology: Rising costs and clever kit are transforming the
   oil platform--and could even do away with it altogether 

   FROM the helipad on top of the Alwyn North oil and gas platform, the
   horizon looks crowded. The massive structure stands in the middle of
   the North Sea, miles from land, but it is far from isolated. Another
   20-odd platforms are visible, plus several drilling rigs, not to
   mention all the ships and helicopters carting staff and supplies
   around. Waters that look featureless and deserted on the map turn out
   to be littered with teeming settlements.

                                                                    Alamy

                                   Alamy

                           An endangered species?

   All this activity comes at tremendous cost. Total, the oil giant that
   owns Alwyn North, spent 1.5 billion ($2.4 billion) to build it back
   in the mid-1980s. It has since spent around 700m on improvements, and
   plans to spend 150m more. And Alwyn North is just one of 435
   platforms in the British portion of the North Sea.

   Then there are running costs. Up to 300 people live on the platform at
   a time, but keeping it fully manned involves more than twice that
   figure, since most staff get three weeks off for every two that they
   work. Simply flying them all from Aberdeen to the platform costs about
   1,000 per person per trip. (Aberdeen boasts the world's busiest
   civilian heliport, thanks to all the offshore traffic.) Food and other
   supplies are brought in by boat. Another vessel is kept on standby
   near the platform all the time, in case of emergency. Generators and
   desalinators run around the clock to provide power and drinking water.

   According to Oil and Gas UK, an industry group, oil firms spent over
   11 billion last year building and running offshore facilities in
   British waters. That puts production costs, at $22 per barrel, among
   the highest in the world. And they are rising rapidly. Deutsche Bank
   estimates that inflation in the oil business has run at 30% a year
   over the past two years, and will continue to rise by at least 15% a
   year this year and next.

   No wonder, then, that firms are determined to reduce the expense of
   producing oil at sea, in the North Sea and elsewhere. One of the
   simplest ways to cut costs is to minimise the number of people working
   on platforms and increase their productivity with the help of modern
   communications. Alwyn North is connected to the mainland by
   fibre-optic cable. That allows geologists onshore to analyse data from
   drilling as it occurs, suggest adjustments and design future drilling
   plans without ever leaving their offices. It also provides continuity
   between shifts: Jon Starkebye of IBM, a computer giant that provides
   services to oil companies, notes that a platform's output can fall by
   as much as 7% during hand-overs between different teams.

   With access to more powerful computers onshore, firms can crunch more
   numbers and so model more accurately what is going on in their fields.
   That allows them to anticipate and pre-empt the intrusion of water
   into their wells, say, or the failure of equipment. Such techniques
   have enabled Statoil, a Norwegian oil firm, to stretch out the period
   between shutdowns for repairs at one field from 750 hours to 4,000,
   and to reduce the annual hours of engineering work at another from
   20,000 to 6,000.

   These efficiencies, in turn, permit much smaller crews: whereas a
   typical older platform needed 100 workers, new ones can make do with
   as few as 29, says Adolfo Henriquez, who is in charge of disseminating
   such "integrated operations" through the firm. Adopting similar
   techniques at all of Norway's offshore fields would yield an extra 250
   billion Norwegian kroner ($43.6 billion) in revenues, according to a
   study published last year by the local oil-industry association.

   Another way for firms operating offshore to economise is by developing
   multiple fields from a single platform. Oil platforms used to stand
   directly above the fields they drilled, as Alwyn North does over the
   oil and gas deposits of the same name. But Total has since discovered
   several other pockets of hydrocarbons nearby. The closest ones can be
   tapped from the platform, since it is now possible to drill sideways
   as well as up and down: a total of 20 wells snake out from Alwyn North
   in different directions. Earlier this year, Exxon Mobil broke the
   record for this sort of long-distance drilling with a well over 11km
   (7 miles) long.

   Even more distant fields can be "tied back" to a platform using
   pipelines along the sea floor. In a tie-back, the valves that open and
   close the well are located not on the rig, but on the sea floor;
   engineers operate them by remote control. Several deposits of oil and
   gas, including Nuggets, a cluster of gas fields over 40km away, are
   linked to Alwyn North in this way. Next, Total plans to connect a new
   discovery called Jura to the platform. As a result the lifespan of
   Alwyn North, estimated at 10 years when it first started production in
   1987, has been extended to over 40 years, while its projected output
   has almost quadrupled.

   The next logical step is to put more equipment underwater, in the hope
   of dispensing with platforms altogether. Statoil, for example, is
   tapping a gas field called Snohvit, which lies 143km offshore, without
   using a platform. But this is possible only because the pressure of
   the field is strong enough to keep the gas flowing through the long
   pipeline back to shore. Norsk Hydro, another Norwegian energy firm on
   the verge of merging with Statoil, has developed another gas field,
   Ormen Lange, in the same way. But in a few years a compressor that can
   work underwater will be needed to supplement the falling pressure in
   the field. Last year, Norsk Hydro hired General Electric (GE), an
   American industrial giant, to build a prototype. "Fifteen years from
   now," says Claudi Santiago of GE, "the vision is that offshore
   platforms will disappear."

   Or maybe not. If some way can be found to liquefy gas offshore, Mr
   Santiago points out, then deposits that are currently too remote for
   the construction of pipelines could be developed, and the gas
   transported in liquid form by ship instead. That would give offshore
   platforms a whole new lease on life.


   Britain's immigration regime, long one of Europe's most liberal, is to
   tighten up. Will it secure the jobs of British workers--or those of
   MPs?

                                                           Report Digital

                               Report Digital


   DURING dull moments in the office, British workers may while away the
   time looking at the website of Australia's immigration department and
   daydreaming about life down under. Every two years the agency updates
   its list of the skills the country wants to import: if yours comes up,
   and you are suitably young and qualified, you may be awarded enough
   points for a passport to warmer climes.

   From March, Britain's government will begin to roll out its own
   "Australian-style" points-based immigration system for workers from
   outside the European Union, looking at education, earnings, age,
   command of English and other factors. One reason is to simplify
   matters: the new system will replace more than 80 different ways of
   coming to work in Britain with five tiers. Another reason, ministers
   say, is to make sure that Britain receives only the migrant workers it
   needs. Alongside a battery of other recently announced changes--from
   citizenship tests through higher age limits for foreign brides to a
   new border police force--the points system is the centrepiece of what
   the government calls the biggest ever change to Britain's immigration
   system.

   They dub it thus with one eye on the polls, for immigration is voters'
   single biggest worry these days. In November a survey by Ipsos MORI
   found 72% of people unhappy with the government's handling of the
   matter. Immigration is seldom off the agenda in any country, as our
   [4]special report this week makes clear, but things are especially
   acute in Britain. With immigration running at its highest rate in
   decades, 68% of people say they think "there are too many immigrants
   in Britain"--the highest proportion in almost 20 years--though 48%
   still believe "immigration is generally good for Britain". Local
   councils complain of inadequate resources to deal with newcomers. Home
   Office gaffes, the repeatedly revealed inadequacies of official
   statistics and underlying fear of Islamist terrorism all stoke unease.

   As Britain's economy predictably cools, the argument over immigration
   will come down increasingly to the question of jobs. No one disputes
   that immigrants have spurred economic growth, though it is less clear
   that they have boosted growth per person. The recent wave of Poles,
   Lithuanians and others from new members of the European Union--mainly
   young, white, healthy and willing to tackle hard-to-fill jobs from
   plumbing to care work--have blended in more easily than most. Danny
   Sriskandarajah of the Institute for Public Policy Research, a
   think-tank, points out that foreign workers have generally been
   drafted in only when the domestic labour market has been tight (see
   chart).

   Yet there is evidence that migrant workers have exerted downward
   pressure on wages in some low-skilled sectors. And in an economy where
   a stubbornly high proportion of young people are not in education,
   work or training, easily employable foreign workers can seem a menace.
   Gordon Brown, the prime minister, recently promised more "British jobs
   for British workers", only to be embarrassed by the subsequent
   revelation that 1.5m of the 2.7m new jobs created in Britain over the
   past ten years had gone to foreign workers.

   The government's vaunted new toughness on immigration is an attempt to
   convince the public that it can prevent migrants from edging young
   Britons out of their own labour market. Yet according to John Salt of
   University College, London, fewer than 40% of migrant workers will be
   covered by the new points regime. Those from the EU--with the
   exception of Romania and Bulgaria, for now--can work as they please
   around Europe.

   Of those that are covered, highly-qualified young people on big
   salaries will have the easiest passage, being allowed in even without
   a job offer; medium-skilled workers will have to hunt around more
   carefully for points, unless their profession is deemed particularly
   in demand by a new council of economists. Low-skilled workers assigned
   to a third tier (again, only those from outside Europe) will be shut
   out, for the time being at least. Two remaining tiers will serve
   students and short-term workers such as pint-pulling backpackers.
   Ministers will be able to move points thresholds up and down according
   to what they, advised by assorted wise men, think is in the national
   interest. A possible next step, already advocated by the
   Conservatives, is annual quotas.

   Britain's skilled workforce is unlikely to change radically. The
   "gold-collar" workers who make the City of London tick should have
   little difficulty making it into Tier 1, under which any graduate
   earning more than 40,000 ($80,000) a year is expected to be admitted
   with few questions asked. And those who are coming in on internal
   transfers within their firms will face relaxed criteria, points out Mr
   Salt. In some industries this will make a big difference: some 80% of
   IT work permits, for example, go to such transferees.

   The biggest impact is likely to be on low-skilled workers such as the
   Ukrainians who pick fruit in Lincolnshire or Bangladeshis dishing up
   curry in London. Their sole route of entry--Tier 3--will be opened up
   only if there is a sudden need for such workers (to complete
   last-minute Olympic building, for instance, or to shore up care
   homes).

   Keeping out the unqualified to improve Britain's skills base may sound
   sensible, but it raises the question of who will do the jobs that
   require little more than willingness. Soon all Britons will have to
   stay in education or training until the age of 18, after which
   strawberry-picking would be a disappointing career. Britain reckons on
   filling the gap through an endless stream of workers from new EU
   states. But many overqualified Poles who have proved enthusiastic
   pickers of cabbages are already ditching agricultural hard labour in
   favour of bar-tending and the like in the cities. Fewer migrants will
   come in the first place, or stay, as their home countries get richer:
   wealthy Slovenia, for example, has sent hardly anyone to Britain. And
   other rich EU countries may soon seek to lure them.

   When these sources run dry there remain Bulgaria and Romania--and
   perhaps, one day, Turkey. But Britain may need to look beyond Europe
   sooner than it thinks. The economy has a seemingly insatiable appetite
   for foreign labour; and having grossly underestimated future numbers
   of eastern European workers a few years ago, the government would be
   embarrassed by overestimating them now.


   Regret and relief as British soldiers lose hope in Iraq

   THE biggest success of Britain's unhappy four-year occupation of Basra
   was its final departure from the city. Under cover of darkness, the
   500-odd men of the 4 Rifles Battlegroup rumbled out of Basra Palace in
   their armoured vehicles on September 2nd with hardly a shot fired or
   bomb detonated.

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                                    Under new management 

   The soldiers, who had been under almost daily attack, were formally
   "repositioned" to the airport a few miles away. Britain would honour
   its "obligations" in Iraq, said Gordon Brown, the prime minister. But
   after losing some 170 soldiers there, the army knows it is on its way
   out. The question is when it will leave for good.

   Mr Brown will have more to say on the subject in October. His aim will
   be to distance himself from the unpopular war in Iraq without
   undermining fatally his relationship with the Bush administration. The
   betting is that he will keep the current 5,000 troops in Iraq until
   the spring, and then draw them down to about 3,000.

   Based at the airport, the troops will maintain the headquarters and
   logistical support for allied forces in south-eastern Iraq, as well as
   providing special forces to fight alongside the Americans farther
   north. Britain is also supposed to protect southern supply routes and
   maintain "overwatch" for Iraqi forces--training and armed
   back-up--after it hands over control of Basra province later in the
   autumn. In practice, though, the British have no permanent presence on
   so-called "Route Tampa" from Kuwait to Baghdad, and prefer to stay out
   of the way of American convoys. They will do everything to avoid
   having to shoot their way back into Basra.

   Apart from defending themselves from rocket and mortar attacks at the
   airport, the main concern of the British army will be to preserve its
   public image, fending off accusations that it has failed and is
   betraying its allies by leaving. Britain says, with much wishful
   thinking, that Iraqi forces are now able to take charge of security.
   That contention seemed to hold this week as Basra went quiet.
   Lieutenant-Colonel Patrick Sanders, the commander of the 4 Rifles
   Battlegroup, said that 90% of the violence in Basra had been directed
   at the British. Senior officers wonder whether the army chief, General
   Sir Richard Dannatt, was right when he said last year that the British
   had become part of the problem.

   Even if he is right, Britain seems to be at cross-purposes with
   America, which has increased its troops in Baghdad. The loudest
   American critics of Britain are the strongest advocates of the
   "surge", such as retired General Jack Keane. He claims American
   officers are frustrated by Britain's "general disengagement" from
   Basra. Pentagon officials say they accept with misgivings Britain's
   withdrawal, but worry about Mr Brown's intentions.

   They are not alone. Australian and other allied forces in southern
   Iraq fear they may be left in the lurch. Some Australian commanders
   draw comparisons with the fiasco of the British-led assault (and later
   retreat) at Gallipoli in the first world war. They are joking, but the
   British army's reputation for counter-insurgency warfare has been
   damaged. And it was just a few years ago that British soldiers
   patrolling Basra in soft berets mocked the Americans for staying in
   their armoured vehicles.

   The British console themselves with the thought that the real fault
   lies with America and its "intellectually bankrupt" post-war strategy,
   as their former army chief, General Sir Mike Jackson, calls it in a
   new book. And the army is still up for the fight in Afghanistan, where
   more troops may be sent. If that effort also ends in failure, however,
   the army will find it hard to shift the blame to anyone else.


   In addition to those mentioned in the text, the author would like to
   thank: Alan Winters of the World Bank; Peter Sutherland of the Global
   Forum on Migration and Development; Sarah Wilson of Christian Aid;
   congressman Ed Perlmutter of Colorado; William Somerville, Doris
   Meissner, Margie McHugh and Michael Fix of the Migration Policy
   Institute; Michael Friel, Vince Bond, Dove Haber and Richard Smith of
   the US Border Patrol; Jorgen Carling of the International Peace
   Research Institute, Oslo; Louka Katseli, formerly of the OECD;
   Binyamin Smith (not his real name) of Ethiopia; Abraham Hailezgi of
   Somalia; Panagiotis Tsiafidis and Stavridopoulos Thrasivoulos of
   Greece; Alicia St Leger of Cobh, Ireland; Mohammed Benjaber, Youssef
   Amrani, Amina Bouayach, Fadlallah Mohammed Fellat and Fehri Nouredine
   of Morocco; and Sally Peberdy of the Southern African Migration
   Project.

   Books and reports

   "[3]Global Migration and the World Economy; Two Centuries of Policy
   and Performance", Timothy Hatton and Geffrey Williamson. MIT Press,
   Cambridge. 2005.

   [4]International Migration Outlook, OECD, 2007 Edition.

   "[5]Immigrants: Your Country Needs Them", Philippe Legrain. Little
   Brown. 2006.

   "[6]Illicit: How Smugglers, Traffickers and Copycats are Hijacking the
   Global Economy", Moiss Naim. Random House. 2005.

   "[7]Immigration Under New Labour", Will Somerville. Policy Press,
   University of Bristol. 2007.

   Think-tanks and websites

   [8]Centre for Immigration Studies

   [9]NumbersUSA

   [10]Migrationwatch UK

   [11]Migration Policy Institute

   [12]Hellenic Migration Policy Institute

   [13]Centre on Migration Policy and Society

   [14]Christian Aid (on climate change and migration)

   [15]SendMoneyHome (remittance advice)

   [16]Southern African Migration Project

   [17]Philippe Legrain's blog


   Vaccines may prevent an epidemic. They may also have caused this
   outbreak

   BRITONS' most searing memories of their encounter with foot-and-mouth
   disease in 2001 are of the piles of animals slaughtered to try to stop
   its spread. Such a draconian policy might have been accepted had the
   disease been controlled quickly. But its ineffectiveness--more than 6m
   cows, sheep and pigs were culled before the disease was
   eradicated--led to widespread revulsion and a government rethink.

   Just as in 2001, if an animal is thought to be infected, its herd will
   be culled and a quarantine zone set up (see map). But this time,
   unless the disease is stamped out quickly, animals nearby will also be
   vaccinated to create a "fire-break" across which it is unlikely to
   travel. Already 300,000 doses of vaccine have been ordered, so that if
   government vets decide that slaughter alone is unlikely to be
   effective, they can start vaccinating straight away.

   Humans almost never catch foot-and-mouth and it rarely kills the
   cloven-hooved beasts it affects. But animals produce less milk and
   meat, so its economic effects are severe. It is also highly
   contagious: infected livestock produce the virus that causes it in
   large quantities, and transmit it through saliva, mucus, milk, faeces
   and even droplets in their breath.

   Even so, only countries where foot-and-mouth is endemic, as in parts
   of Latin America, vaccinate all animals. One reason is cost: the
   disease is caused by a virus with seven main types and tens of
   sub-types, with a targeted vaccine needed for each strain and shots
   repeated, perhaps as often as twice a year. It is also because
   vaccinating damages exports. Places that are free from foot-and-mouth
   are unwilling to import vaccinated beasts, or fresh meat from them,
   because they may still carry the disease.

   The fear of being shut out of foreign markets led to the British
   government's disastrous foot-dragging over vaccination in 2001. But
   that same year an outbreak in the Netherlands involving 26 farms was
   brought under control in just one month by vaccinating 200,000
   animals. Though healthy, these beasts then had to be culled so that
   farmers could return to exporting without restrictions as soon as
   possible.

   Not even eternal vigilance on imports can keep a country free of
   foot-and-mouth disease: the latest outbreak was apparently caused by a
   breach of bio-security at the Pirbright laboratory complex in Surrey,
   where government researchers keep the live virus for vaccine research
   and Merial, an American animal-health company, manufactures vaccine
   for export. Human action, accidental or deliberate, seems likely to
   have been involved.

   Ironically, one reason for eschewing vaccination is that although it
   provides the best hope of dealing with outbreaks, maintaining the
   capacity to produce vaccine is itself a risky business. Many earlier
   episodes of foot-and-mouth in countries normally free from the disease
   have been caused by laboratory escapes; in 1970 a leak from
   Pirbright's isolation facilities was fortunately contained.


   Collapsing markets suggest a mini-subprime crisis in the making


   FROM up high, London is a picture of vigorous renewal. In just about
   every direction, construction cranes point contemplatively to the
   skies. They also point to the great boom that has taken place in
   commercial property in recent years. The collapse of that boom, which
   now threatens to slash the values of these gleaming office towers and
   destroy the savings of millions, may pose almost as great a threat to
   Britain's banking system as the subprime crisis that has been roiling
   financial markets since late in 2007.

   Bubbles are most easily seen with hindsight, but this one was in plain
   view even as it inflated. In 2004 and 2005 British office prices rose
   at an average rate of 10% a year before jumping 17% in 2006, according
   to IPD, a data provider. Rental yields fell, meanwhile, to below the
   cost of borrowing in late 2006. By the middle of last year, with rents
   rising and buildings bursting at their seams, frenzied buying had
   pushed up prices and widened the gap between yields and borrowing
   costs to 1.7 percentage points.

   Developers, too, overcame their caution at just the wrong moment. Many
   had burnt their fingers on speculative towers in the 1990s. So for the
   first half of this decade, few landlords started pouring foundations
   until they had signed up elevator-loads of dependable tenants.

   Yet, with the impeccably bad timing the industry is known for,
   construction boomed just as the market was peaking. CB Richard Ellis,
   a consultancy, reckons that new offices are being built in London at
   their fastest rate in nearly two decades. Most of the ones going up
   this year have yet to find tenants (see chart), and not all will, for
   the freeze in credit markets has spread to City payrolls. Law firms
   stopped hiring in the third quarter of last year, and banks are sure
   to do the same soon.

   Rents in London's financial district, which CBRE says rose by 22% in
   the 12 months to the end of September 2007, will probably fall by
   about 5% this year, according to John Fraser-Andrews of HSBC, a bank.
   And although a decline in commercial-property prices was inevitable,
   its ferocity has taken many by surprise. In November the value of
   commercial properties dipped by about 4%, their largest monthly drop
   on record. CBRE reckons that commercial properties are worth about 9%
   less now than they were at their peak in July. Capital Economics, a
   consultancy, thinks their value may have slipped by some 15%.

   Yet even so prices may have a long way to fall. Tim Bond of Barclays
   Bank says the derivatives markets are forecasting the biggest collapse
   in commercial-property prices since the second world war--a fall of up
   to 30% over the next three years. In 1989-92, when property last took
   a tremendous tumble, values plunged by about 27%, according to the
   Bank of England.

   Such a fall could wreak havoc on Britain's banks, which are already
   smarting from losses on investments backed by mortgage loans in
   America to borrowers with spotty credit records (subprime loans). The
   Bank of England frets that by the end of the third quarter British
   bank loans to commercial-property companies had increased to 186
   billion, or about 9% of domestic lending. This is a higher proportion
   than during the last big bust, when collapsing property prices
   contributed to the closure or failure of 25 small banks and helped
   cause an economic downturn.

   The European Central Bank, meanwhile, worries about the proliferation
   of credit derivatives and securities backed by mortgages on commercial
   properties in Britain and America. These, says Ian Harnett of Absolute
   Strategy Research, a consultancy, may end up posing as great a risk to
   the financial system as securities based on American subprime
   residential mortgages, which brought the world's financial system to
   its knees in August.

   Others are more sanguine, mainly because, however much banks have lent
   to commercial-property firms, they have handed out still more to
   homeowners. Mr Bond, for instance, thinks that the fall in property
   prices in Britain may force banks to write off 2-3% of the value of
   their commercial-property loans over the next few years. At worst, he
   says, the meltdown in that market will cause only about a quarter as
   much damage as defaults on bad residential mortgages. Not really a
   comforting thought.


   Big price rises raise questions about how the market works

   HANGOVER at new year is in the grand tradition, but this year
   consumers' heads (and wallets) are hurting more than normal. On
   January 4th npower, a British electricity and gas firm owned by
   Germany's RWE, announced big increases in its household-energy
   tariffs. Electricity prices for its customers rose by an average of
   12.7%; natural-gas prices by 17.2%. The averages disguised a much
   wider range--rises for some customers were as high as 27%, supposedly
   because it costs more to transport gas to some parts of the country.
   Other suppliers are now muttering about price hikes of their own.

   Npower (and other energy firms) offer a simple explanation: gas is
   expensive because oil is expensive, driven by production difficulties,
   dwindling reserves and insatiable demand from the rapidly growing
   economies of India and China. Electricity prices, in turn, follow gas
   prices, because about 40% of Britain's power plants are gas-fired. Add
   in the rising cost of meeting energy-efficiency targets, and the
   increasing proportion of energy that must by law come from expensive
   renewable sources, and price rises are inevitable.

   But high oil prices may not be the whole story. Allan Asher, the head
   of Energywatch, a consumer watchdog, argues that the real problem is
   the malfunctioning of Britain's vaunted liberalised energy markets. He
   points out that the number of suppliers has dwindled from more than 20
   a decade ago to just six now, and that today's firms are vertically
   integrated to a great degree. Opaque markets and jealous incumbents
   make entering the domestic energy business difficult, and continental
   Europe's fondness for long-term contracts makes it hard for suppliers
   there to respond to price signals elsewhere. The result is volatility:
   even when British prices reach eye-watering levels (as happened in
   each of the previous two winters), gas imports do not increase to
   match, leading to factory closures and, in 2006, fears that
   residential customers might be cut off too.

   For many years ministers have assured the public that Britain's
   markets are working well, pointing to high levels of switching by
   customers and arguing that price is not the only measure of
   competitive performance. But on January 7th Alistair Darling, the
   chancellor, asked for a meeting with Ofgem, the energy regulator, to
   discuss whether consumer energy prices (which have risen steadily
   since 2003) have been responding properly to wholesale prices.

   Regardless of Mr Darling's concern, other official policies mean that
   energy prices are likely to remain high. The government is keen on
   expanding renewable energy and on building a new generation of
   nuclear-power plants to cut carbon emissions (see [3]article). But
   windmills and atomic reactors are expensive, and the only way they can
   compete with fossil fuels is through subsidies or higher energy prices
   that reflect the full cost of emitting carbon. Either way, consumers
   will foot the bills.


   Healing those who harm themselves


   IT IS unpleasant to reflect that we will all perish one day--and even
   worse to suspect that the health service meant to look after us may
   have a hand in our demise. But that is what many Britons fear.
   Outbreaks of hospital-acquired infections such as MRSA and C.
   difficile, and stories of women in labour without a midwife and old
   folk unwashed and unfed, make admission to hospital seem like a game
   of Russian roulette. Meanwhile, rulings by the National Institute for
   Health and Clinical Excellence, which has the power to decide which
   medical treatments offer sufficiently good value that they should be
   paid for by the NHS, guarantee a stream of headlines about how ailing
   Britons are denied treatments that are standard abroad.

   Challenging this perception that the NHS is likely to fail voters in
   their hour of need was, presumably, the reason why the prime minister,
   Gordon Brown, joined the health secretary, Alan Johnson, for the
   announcement on December 3rd of a new national cancer strategy. This
   committed an extra 370m over the next five years to spotting cancers
   earlier and ensuring better treatment for those who develop the
   disease. More radiotherapy equipment and staff will account for 200m;
   and breast, cervical and bowel screening programmes will be expanded.

   The main thrust of the plan, though, was to improve prevention rather
   than cure. Over half of all cancers could be prevented by changes to
   lifestyle, it says. Cigarette-vending machines and coin-operated
   sunbeds face curbs in an attempt to make it harder for youngsters to
   smoke or fry themselves to a melanoma-inducing crisp. And from 2008
   schoolgirls will be vaccinated against HPV, a virus implicated in 70%
   of cases of cervical cancer.

   Smoking, drinking and obesity are the big culprits; all are hard to
   change, but the government will keep on trying. More graphic warnings
   on cigarette packets, and an advertising campaign to teach people how
   to keep track of the amount they drink, may have a positive, if
   limited, impact on the first two. But a "cross-government strategy to
   tackle obesity", to be published "shortly", looks like an admission
   that no one knows how to tackle the third.

   Behind all this activity is a nagging feeling that Britain is not
   getting good value for the money it has put into cancer care. By
   international standards, mortality rates from the disease are middling
   (see chart), although the high numbers of British women who smoked in
   the 1980s and 1990s pushed up the incidence of lung cancer.
   Improvements in survival rates only show up many years later, of
   course. But the most recent figures, which indicate how many of those
   whose cancers were diagnosed before 2002 were alive five years later,
   suggest that Britons fare worse overall than most other Europeans.
   Survival rates were highest in the Nordic countries (except Denmark)
   and lower than average in Britain. In general, countries that spent
   more fared better; but Britain had lower survival rates than other
   countries with similar expenditure.

   Just two days after the new cancer strategy was unveiled, another
   national plan, this time for preventing and dealing with strokes,
   joined it. (Mr Johnson was allowed to handle this one without his boss
   by his side; not for nothing is stroke known as the silent killer.)
   The plan offers brave words about preventing 20,000 strokes a year by
   promoting healthy living and prescribing statins more widely. And
   those patients who have minor strokes are to be guaranteed an MRI scan
   within a week (only 35% of centres manage this at present), or within
   a day if they are at high risk of suffering a full-blown stroke. The
   Department of Health reckons this could reduce by four-fifths the
   number of people who go on to have a more serious stroke.

   Sandwiched between the two plans was a worrying report on maternal
   mortality, which is still low in Britain, but is rising. The report
   from the confidential inquiry into maternal deaths condemned poor
   standards of care, but also found that, of 295 women who died while
   giving birth between 2003 and 2005, half were overweight and 15% were
   very obese. Another reminder that, whereas patients hope the NHS will
   look after them, the NHS needs them to look after themselves.


   As the internet becomes intertwined with the real world, the resulting
   "geoweb" has many uses

   "EARTH materialises, rotating majestically in front of his face. Hiro
   reaches out and grabs it. He twists it around so he's looking at
   Oregon. Tells it to get rid of the clouds, and it does, giving him a
   crystalline view of the mountains and the seashore."

   That vision from Neal Stephenson's "Snow Crash", a science-fiction
   novel published in 1992, aptly describes Google Earth, a computer
   program that lets users fly over a detailed photographic map of the
   world. Other information, such as roads, borders and the locations of
   coffee shops can be draped on to the view, which can be panned,
   rotated, tilted and zoomed with almost seamless continuity. First-time
   users often report an exhilarating revelatory pang as they realise
   what the software can do. As the globe spins and switches from one
   viewpoint to another, it can even induce vertigo.

   Google's virtual globe incorporates elevation data that describe
   surface features such as mountains and valleys. Other data is then
   overlaid on it, notably a patchwork of satellite imagery and aerial
   photography licensed from several public and private providers. The
   entire planet is covered, with around one-third of all land depicted
   in such detail that individual trees and cars, and the homes of 3
   billion people, can be seen. All this has long been imaginable but has
   become possible only recently, thanks to high-resolution commercial
   satellite imaging, broadband links and cheap, powerful computers.

   Keyhole, an American firm, released the first commercial "geobrowser"
   in 2001. Google bought Keyhole in 2004 and launched Google Earth in
   2005. Its basic, free version has since been downloaded over 250m
   times, says Michael Jones, one of Keyhole's founders and now Google
   Earth's chief technologist.

   In 2004 America's space agency, NASA, released another geobrowser,
   called World Wind. More than 20m copies are in use. But Google's main
   geobrowsing rival is Microsoft. Both Encarta, Microsoft's
   encyclopedia, and TerraServer, a database demonstration project, had
   geobrowser-like features in the 1990s. At the end of 2005 Microsoft
   bought GeoTango, which contributed to the development of Live Search
   Maps, a web-based geobrowser that uses data from Virtual Earth,
   Microsoft's digital model of the planet. (Google also provides a
   web-based geobrowser via Google Maps.)

    An overlay shows desroyed villages in Darfur; sunbakers on Sydney's
        Bondi Beach; the city of Berlin, with detailed 3-D buildings

   Vincent Tao, GeoTango's founder and now director of Virtual Earth for
   Microsoft, allows that Microsoft has spent at the "couple of hundreds
   of millions of dollars level" on Virtual Earth. Most of that has been
   spent on the acquisition of imagery, which now totals 14 petabytes on
   900 servers. (One petabyte is 1m gigabytes.) The company is also
   adding detail in the form of textured three-dimensional models of
   cities devised from aerial photographs; ten cities are added each
   month.

   For its part, Google is relying on "crowdsourcing"--enlisting its
   users to build and contribute images, 3-D models of buildings and
   other data to enrich its digital planet. So far 850,000 users have
   contributed millions of annotations and more than 1m images, vetting
   one another's contributions. Wikipedia, which uses a similar system,
   is itself available through Google Earth. Users can read Wikipedia
   articles placed on the globe using "geotags"--spatial co-ordinates
   encoded into each entry. Other sites including Flickr, the leading
   photo-sharing site, and Google's YouTube, also support geotags.

   These virtual globes are being put to an unexpected range of uses.
   Google Earth was used to co-ordinate relief efforts in New Orleans in
   the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Tax inspectors in Buenos
   Aires are using it to see whether people are correctly reporting the
   size of their properties. An Italian programmer who was using the
   software noticed odd markings on the ground near his home town which
   turned out to be a previously unknown Roman villa. Roofers, landscape
   gardeners and solar-panel installers use the virtual maps to scout for
   potential customers. Rebecca Moore, a member of the Google Earth team,
   used the software to galvanise her neighbourhood in the Santa Cruz
   mountains in opposition to a nearby logging project. And the Amazon
   Conservation Team, an American charity, equipped 26 indigenous tribes
   in the Amazon with hand-held global positioning system units and
   computers running Google Earth, to enable them to assert their legal
   sovereignty in the face of threats from loggers and miners.

   "It's turning into a map of historical significance," says John Hanke,
   head of Google's Earth and Maps division, and another of Keyhole's
   founders. "It is going to be a map of the world that is more detailed
   than any map that's ever been created." He may be understating the
   technology's importance.

   The world-wired web

   Geobrowsers are a stunningly effective means of visualising the
   planet. But they are just one part of a broader endeavour, the
   construction of a "geoweb" that is still in its infancy, much as the
   world wide web was in the mid-1990s. The web did away with many
   geographical constraints, enabling people with common interests to
   communicate, regardless of location. Yet placelessness jettisons some
   of the most useful features of information, which are now attracting
   new attention.

   At present the most feverish excitement surrounds the combination of
   virtual maps with other sources of data in "mash-ups". One of the
   earliest examples, housingmaps.com, created in 2005, combines San
   Francisco apartment listings from [3]Craigslist.org with Google Maps.
   Mash-ups have since become commonplace--Google says its maps are used
   in more than 4m of them. In April the company added features to Google
   Maps to make it easier to create mash-ups. Microsoft is at work on a
   similar tool. Another site, [4]platial.com, provides free mash-up
   tools for bloggers, spawning a new genre in self-absorption:
   autobiogeography.

   The geoweb has obvious appeal to those in the property business.
   [5]Zillow.com mashes Microsoft's Virtual Earth with other data to
   create maps of home prices in America. But property is just the start.
   At [6]gasbuddy.com, visitors can map local petrol prices to plan
   fill-ups. [7]ExploreOurPla.net brings together thousands of sources of
   images and data to let users investigate climate change.

   House prices overlaid on a satellite map at Zillow.com; San Francisco,
       seen on Google's Street View; a GIS view of an air-force base

   These examples illustrate the emerging architecture of the geoweb:
   data, such as information on traffic jams or seismic tremors, is
   hosted separately from the images and models of the geobrowser, which
   assembles, combines and displays the information in new ways.
   [8]GeoCommons.com hosts data, from crime rates to melanoma statistics,
   that can be combined to create colour-coded "heat maps" of intangibles
   such as "hipness". Visitors to [9]Heywhatsthat.com can generate a
   diagram of the view from any high spot to see the names of visible
   mountain peaks.

   Here the neogeographers, as mash-up enthusiasts are known, have
   crossed into the terrain of "geographic information systems" (GIS),
   the fancy software tools that are used by governments and companies to
   analyse spatial data. Geobrowsers are still quite primitive by
   comparison, but are much easier to use. For its part GIS deals with
   critical infrastructure, so its data tend to be of impeccable quality.
   Jack Dangermond, the founder of ESRI, a private firm that dominates
   the GIS market, says interest stimulated by the geoweb has helped to
   boost business by 20% this year. Ron Lake of Galdos Systems, a firm
   that specialises in integrating civic geodata, says geobrowsers have
   led to a push for better public access to such data.

   When the analytical insights and data quality of GIS are combined with
   the geoweb's visualisation and networking prowess, startling
   efficiencies emerge. Last year Waterstone, a consultancy, assembled
   the geodata for 13 American air-force bases and wrapped them up in a
   modified version of NASA's World Wind geobrowser. This makes it
   possible to walk through a 3-D model of each base and call up multiple
   layers of data. A project manager can view live video from a
   construction site and identify the contractors and their vehicles. A
   planner can assess a proposed building's effect on runway visibility.
   And an environmental engineer, while viewing a plume of contaminated
   groundwater, can delve into 45 years' worth of documents associated
   with the site. Carla Johnson, Waterstone's boss, says the project cost
   less than $1m and is expected to save the air force around $5m a year
   through faster decision-making.

   Smile, you're on Google Earth

   Like any technology, the geoweb has both good and bad uses. When
   geobrowsers first introduced easy access to satellite imagery,
   something that had previously only been available to intelligence
   agencies, many observers worried that terrorists might use such images
   to plan attacks. Google Earth seems to have been used in this way by
   Iraqi insurgents planning attacks on a British base in the city of
   Basra, for example, in which individual buildings and vehicles can be
   clearly seen. After this came to light in January, the images of the
   area in question were replaced with images from 2002, predating the
   construction of the camp.

   This summer a member of the Assembly of the State of New York called
   on Google to obscure imagery after the geobrowser was used by plotters
   in a foiled airport attack. Yet Mr Jones says Google has been formally
   contacted by governments in this regard only three times (including by
   India and by an unspecified European country), and that in each case
   the issue was resolved without making changes to the imagery in Google
   Earth.

   Although some buildings or areas are blurred for security reasons,
   Google says this is done by the firms from which it licenses the
   imagery. Microsoft says it blurs photos in response to "legitimate
   government and agency requests". But the images are typically between
   six months and three years old, which limits their tactical
   usefulness; and satellite and aerial images are available from many
   other sources, and have been for some time. So in some respects,
   geobrowsers have not made possible anything that was not possible
   before--they have just made access to such images much cheaper and
   easier.

   "It's a question of the policy and the thinking catching up with the
   technology," says Mr Hanke. "Ease of access alters the debate." Google
   insists that it takes security concerns very seriously, and points out
   that the American government's official position is that the benefits
   of making satellite images widely available outweigh the risks.
   Indeed, some jurisdictions are embracing the exposure. The Canary
   Islands have donated high-resolution imagery to Google in the hope
   that virtual visitors might become real tourists, and the city of
   Berlin has made its painstakingly detailed digital models available
   through Google Earth.

   For governments that are used to hiding things from each other's spy
   satellites, the advent of the geobrowsers does not change things very
   much. Ordinary members of the public can now call up images of Chinese
   nuclear submarines via Google Earth, but intelligence agencies around
   the world have had access to far more detailed satellite images for
   years. And the fact that the submarines can be seen at all means that
   China is not trying to keep their existence a secret. Even so, armed
   forces do find the geoweb useful. The American military is a big user
   of both World Wind and the enterprise version of Google Earth. And
   some governments do have grounds for concern: the government of Sudan,
   for example, would undoubtedly prefer the United States Holocaust
   Memorial Museum not to highlight destroyed villages in Darfur via an
   overlay in Google Earth.

   Close to home, the geoweb turns out to have implications for personal
   privacy as well as geopolitics. Google's new Street View feature,
   launched in May, lets users of Google Maps move through
   stitched-together street-level imagery of several American cities,
   giving private citizens a taste of "crowdsourced" surveillance. All
   the views are of public streets yet, in aggregate, they challenge
   accepted notions of privacy--especially for those caught doing
   something naughty as Google's specially equipped camera van swoops
   past. Shortly after the feature was launched, users uncovered a car
   getting a ticket from Miami police, a man scaling a locked gate in San
   Francisco and another man entering a shop selling sex toys.

   "When the coverage is everything and everywhere, there is going to be
   a big problem," says Lee Tien, a lawyer at the Electronic Frontier
   Foundation, an internet campaign group. Satellite images are not
   detailed enough to allow individual people or vehicles to be
   identified, but faces and licence plates can be seen in Google's
   Street View. There are few legal precedents. In 2003, Barbra Streisand
   sued to keep her Malibu estate out of an online library of images of
   the California coast. She lost. Although movie stars are more stalked
   than most--several sites provide geobrowser links to celebrities'
   homes--it is easy to imagine innocent annotations that could be
   unintentionally dangerous. Shelters for battered women, for example,
   often prefer not to make their locations widely known.

   Google's Mr Jones believes the benefits are strong enough to overcome
   these concerns. "I think there's a social barrier to everything new,"
   he says. The availability of useful information will outweigh concern
   over surveillance and loss of privacy, he believes. Five or six years
   ago, he notes, people worried about the spread of camera phones. But
   now "everyone just presumes that everybody has a camera on their
   phone--it's nothing special." The lesson of previous technologies, he
   says, is that "we all are happy to tolerate things that would have
   previously been considered intolerable."

   Indeed, all the features--good and bad--of the internet will
   eventually gain new dimensions on the geoweb. Bots and intelligent
   agents will crawl it. It will be populated by avatars, as Second Life
   becomes first life, and it will enable the inverse: telepresent
   machines roaming the real world. Ghostly, private worlds will be
   overlaid on reality, sensitive only to members. The malicious
   possibilities are sobering: location-based viruses, geohacking and,
   worst of all, geospam.

   Despite these concerns, the potential of the geoweb is not lost on
   investors. Since the beginning of last year more than 20 geospatial
   firms have been the targets of mergers and acquisitions, with Google,
   Microsoft and ESRI among the buyers. But it is not quite time to
   declare the dawn of Web 3.0. For one thing, consumer geobrowsing does
   not make any money. Microsoft's Mr Tao says that revenue has to come
   from advertising for now, until critical mass enables location-based
   transactions. Google, true to form, is investing first and worrying
   about revenue later.

   The road to Web 3.0

   A more immediate hurdle is on the verge of resolution. Google recently
   submitted KML, the tagging protocol that describes how objects are
   placed in Google Earth, to the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC), a
   standards body. This will let other firms support it. GML, a protocol
   developed by the OGC to encode spatial-information models, was
   formally adopted as an international standard this year. Standards for
   dynamic geodata, the sharing of 3-D models of buildings and geodata
   from sensor networks ought to be in place by next year. All this will
   ensure interoperability and do for geodata what the web did for other
   forms of data, says Carl Reed, the OGC's chief technologist.

   At the same time, the incorporation of satellite-positioning
   technology into mobile phones and cars could open the floodgates. When
   it is available, simply moving about one's neighbourhood can then be
   tantamount to browsing and generating content without doing anything,
   as demonstrated by a company called Socialight. Its service lets
   mobile users attach notes to any location, to be read by others who
   come along later. Taken further, the result could end up being a sort
   of extrasensory information awareness, annotation and analysis
   capability in the real world. "When that happens", says Mr Jones,
   "then the map is actually a little portal on to life itself." The only
   thing that can hold it back, he believes, is the rate at which society
   can adapt.


   It's not when you imbibe but how much that counts

   VOMIT and broken glass are as much a part of the festive season in
   binge-prone Britain as are crackers and tinsel. This year, though,
   drinkers took the customary bender further than usual. Calls to
   ambulance services in the first four hours of 2008 rose dramatically:
   in London, for example, by 16% on the same period in 2007, and by 30%
   on 2006. Those caught in the crossfire took evasive action: some
   churches held "midnight" mass as early as 6pm on Christmas Eve to
   avoid drunken interruptions; some councils brought forward their New
   Year's Eve firework displays, or cancelled them altogether.

   These excesses did little to convince critics of the licensing-law
   changes in 2005--which allowed pubs to stay open past the old closing
   time of 11pm, even around the clock--that the country is acquiring the
   less sodden, continental-style drinking culture that the
   liberalisation was supposed to foster. Doctors' and patients' groups,
   which had opposed the move in the first place, are calling once more
   for the government to backtrack.

   Last year it looked as if opponents of looser licensing laws would get
   their way. The puritanical new prime minister, Gordon Brown, threw out
   plans for a supercasino, promised to rethink the decision to downgrade
   cannabis and said that he "would not hesitate" to tighten the
   alcohol-licensing rules once more if a review of the new regime
   warranted it.

   But they now seem likely to be disappointed. That review, due soon,
   will probably recommend only a few tweaks. There will be tougher
   measures to curb under-age drinking, and harsher penalties for rowdy
   venues, but no return to last orders. Although ending the race to
   drink up before closing time has not moderated drinking habits,
   neither have apocalyptic predictions come to pass. Violence fuelled by
   alcohol has remained broadly stable, with slightly fewer incidents
   around 11pm, when tanked-up hordes used to pour out onto the streets,
   and slightly more in the wee hours.

   That may be because 24-hour drinking is almost nowhere the reality.
   Most premises have extended their licences by only an hour or so. Only
   3% are open around the clock, and two-thirds of them are hotels, which
   were entitled to 24-hour licences under the previous regime.

   The battleground is now shifting from the mean streets to suburban
   living rooms. There has been a long-term rise in the number of Britons
   drinking enough to damage their health: 4,144 deaths were caused by
   alcohol in 1991; by 2005 that had more than doubled to 8,386. Many are
   middle-class and middle-aged folk who would never dream of taking a
   swing at a fellow boozer, but regularly polish off a bottle or two of
   wine at home with dinner.

   Those who campaign for shorter pub-opening hours also want higher
   taxes on alcohol and a crackdown on happy hours and supermarkets'
   special offers. Here they may make more progress. In December MPs
   debated the consequences for the country's health of cheap alcohol;
   much time was spent castigating supermarkets for selling booze below
   cost, and one MP dubbed Sir Terry Leahy, the boss of Tesco, the
   "godfather of British binge drinking".

   Just before Christmas the Office for National Statistics had more bad
   news for bourgeois boozers: it has, apparently, been under-counting
   the Britons who drink to excess. Figures to be published later this
   month will take into account the trend towards stronger wines and
   larger wine glasses. Those whose New Year's resolutions include
   cutting down may wish to note that a large glass of high-alcohol wine
   comes in at a whopping three units.


   The capital's councils have gone blue. Is London ready for a Tory
   mayor?

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

                           Boris has news for you


   NEW YORK was said to be the inspiration behind London's elected mayor,
   a job that Labour created in 1999 as part of its grand devolutionary
   programme. But although the posts may sound similar, their holders
   have little in common. Michael Bloomberg is a financial-data
   billionaire with a Harvard MBA, who runs the Big Apple like a
   business. "Red Ken" Livingstone, his opposite number in London, is
   friendly with Hugo Chvez, Venezuela's socialist president, and is
   planning a festival to mark the 50th anniversary of the Cuban
   revolution.

   London's knack of attracting eccentric candidates--probably because
   the job is much less powerful than New York's--continues. On July 16th
   Boris Johnson, a scarecrow-haired old-Etonian MP, confirmed his desire
   to run as the Conservative candidate in London's mayoral election in
   May. If, as expected, he wins the party's primary ballot in September,
   he may give David Cameron's Tories their best chance yet of toppling
   Mr Livingstone, who became London's first elected mayor in 2000 and is
   seeking a third term.

   Both men are mavericks who are blessed with the gift of the gaffe. Mr
   Johnson is famous for upsetting people everywhere from Liverpool
   (which has a "tribal grievance about the rest of society") to Papua
   New Guinea (which stages "orgies of cannibalism and chief-killing").
   For his part, Red Ken called George Bush "the greatest threat to life
   on this planet".

   Until now, Mr Livingstone's victories have been distinctly one-sided,
   not least because the Tory party has long struggled to find a
   Ken-beater. Jeffrey Archer, their first-ever mayoral candidate, pulled
   out of the 2000 race when accused of perjury and was later imprisoned.
   His replacement, Steven Norris, a little-known former minister, ran
   again in 2004 and was considering a third bid after Tory efforts to
   woo everyone from John Major, a former prime minister, to Lord
   Stevens, a one-time head of London's police, came to naught.

   With the right candidate, London ought to be ripe for the
   Conservatives' taking. Last year's elections gave them a majority on
   14 London councils, twice as many as Labour. Since 2004 they have held
   the most seats in the city-wide London Assembly. They may increase
   their lead in May by taking back votes from UKIP, a right-wing fringe
   party that did well last time.

   Mr Johnson's clownishness is not to every senior Tory's taste but his
   high profile--especially with young voters--makes his antics easier to
   swallow. He is by far the best-known Tory MP bar current and former
   party leaders, says Peter Kellner of YouGov, a pollster. And his faux
   buffoonery makes traditional right-wing positions seem more palatable.
   "I may be in trouble for saying this," he begins self-deprecatingly,
   but "supposing Tower Hamlets or parts of Bradford were to become
   governed by [Muslim] religious zealots?"

   Ahead looms a no-holds-barred contest. But the love-loathe
   relationship that Londoners have with Mr Livingstone means that the
   pool of swing voters is smaller than usual, according to Julia Clark
   of Ipsos MORI, another polling firm. She says the biggest election
   issue is Mr Livingstone's congestion charge for motorists, about which
   most voters formed a view years ago. Londoners will enjoy watching the
   candidates slug it out, but many may have made up their minds already.


   Energy: Attitudes to nuclear power are shifting in response to climate
   change and fears over the security of the supply of fossil fuels. The
   technology of nuclear power has been changing, too

                                                                    Alamy

                                   Alamy

   OVER the next few decades global electricity consumption is expected
   to double. At the same time, many power plants in rich countries,
   built back in the 1960s and 1970s, are nearing the end of their
   projected lifespans. Meanwhile, concern is swelling both about global
   warming, and about the Western world's increasing dependence on a
   shrinking number of hostile or unstable countries for imports of oil
   and gas. The solution to this conundrum, in the eyes of many
   governments, is nuclear power.

   Around the world, 31 reactors are under construction and many more are
   in the planning stages. Some of the most ambitious programmes are
   under way in developing countries. Both China and India are building
   several reactors and intend to increase their nuclear-generating
   capacity several times over in the next 15 years. Some countries, such
   as Turkey and Vietnam, are considering starting nuclear-power
   programmes, and others, including Argentina and South Africa, plan to
   expand their existing ones.

   The rich world is also re-examining the case for nuclear. America is
   expecting a rush of applications to build new reactors in the coming
   months--the first in almost 30 years. Britain's prime minister, Gordon
   Brown, recently affirmed his support for a new generation of nuclear
   power plants. Construction of a new one in Finland, western Europe's
   first for 15 years, began in 2005; work is just starting on another of
   the same design in France. Other European countries that had frozen or
   decided to scrap their nuclear programmes are rethinking their plans.

   There are good reasons for this enthusiasm. Nuclear reactors emit
   almost none of the greenhouse gases responsible for global warming.
   They are fuelled by uranium, which is relatively abundant and is
   available from many sources, including reassuringly stable places such
   as Canada and Australia.

   At the moment 439 nuclear reactors in 31 countries supply 15% of the
   world's electricity. Even without a price on carbon emissions, says
   Fatih Birol, the chief economist of the International Energy Agency
   (IEA), the worldwide generating capacity of nuclear power plants will
   probably increase from about 370 gigawatts today to 520 gigawatts in
   2030. But if there were a price on carbon dioxide, says Mr Birol, "it
   could grow even faster."

   But there are also good reasons for scepticism. Nuclear plants are
   expensive: each can cost several billion dollars to build. Worse, in
   the past, ill-conceived designs, safety scares and the regulatory
   delays they gave rise to made nuclear plants even more costly than
   their hefty price-tags suggest. Vendors of new nuclear plants, such as
   Areva, General Electric (GE), Hitachi and Westinghouse, argue that
   things are different now. The latest designs incorporate suggestions
   from utilities and operators with decades of experience, and should,
   their creators say, make new plants safer and easier to operate. They
   believe the simpler new reactors, with their longer lifespans and
   reduced maintenance costs, will also improve the economics of the
   industry.

                                                  [spacer.gif] [gray.gif]
                                                             [spacer.gif]
       "The latest generation of reactors includes important improvements
                                                     over prior designs."
                                                             [spacer.gif]
                                                               [gray.gif]

   All nuclear reactors rely on nuclear fission, a process that was
   discovered in the 1930s. When certain heavy atoms are struck by a
   neutron, they absorb it, become unstable and split apart. This results
   in two lighter atoms, and two or three neutrons are ejected. The
   process releases large amounts of energy, much of it in the form of
   the kinetic energy of the fast-moving fission products. This kinetic
   energy is converted to heat as the fission products slow down.

   If the ejected neutrons go on to strike other unstable atoms nearby,
   those too can break apart, releasing further neutrons in a process
   known as a chain reaction. When enough of these neutrons produce
   further fissions--rather than escaping, bouncing off or being absorbed
   by atoms that do not split apart--the process becomes self-sustaining.
   An uncontrolled chain reaction within a large amount of fissionable
   material can lead to an explosive release of energy, as in nuclear
   weapons. But in nuclear reactors, which contain far less fissionable
   material, the chain reaction and the release of energy are carefully
   controlled.

   War and peace

   In 1942 the physicist Enrico Fermi led a group of scientists who built
   the first nuclear reactor as part of the Manhattan Project--America's
   effort to build the first atomic bomb. Although the reactor was simple
   in design, it included features that are part of almost every nuclear
   power plant today. The reactor core consisted of pellets of uranium
   fuel inside bricks made of graphite, which served as a "moderator",
   reducing the speed of the neutrons in order to maximise their ability
   to cause further fissions. (Most reactors today use water as the
   moderator.) In addition, the set-up included "control rods" made of a
   material that absorbed neutrons. These rods could be inserted into the
   core to slow or shut down the chain reaction if necessary.

   Although all of this was done with a view to building an effective
   weapon, the scientists involved always knew that nuclear technologies
   also had promising peaceful uses. In 1953 America's president, Dwight
   Eisenhower, gave his famous "Atoms for Peace" speech before the United
   Nations General Assembly, in which he called for the controlled
   application of nuclear energy in a civilian context. In the mid-1950s
   the world's first civilian nuclear power stations appeared in America,
   Britain and Russia.

   America's first civilian nuclear power plant, of a type called a
   pressurised water reactor (PWR), was designed by Westinghouse and
   adapted from the reactors used in nuclear submarines. Inside a PWR,
   water--which is kept under high pressure to prevent it from
   boiling--has a double function. In a closed "primary" loop, it serves
   as a coolant for the reactor core and as a moderator, to slow down the
   fast neutrons created during fission. As the water in the primary loop
   circulates, it becomes very hot. This heat energy is then transferred
   to a secondary loop of water. The resulting steam is used to spin
   turbines that generate electricity.

   Nuclear's golden age

   In the 1950s the pursuit of atomic energy was viewed as a largely
   positive endeavour. In a speech in 1954 before a group of science
   writers, the head of America's Atomic Energy Commission, Lewis
   Strauss, even declared that one day nuclear power would be "too cheap
   to meter". By the mid-1960s America's two leading reactor vendors,
   General Electric (GE) and Westinghouse, were involved in an intense
   competition. GE began to offer "turnkey" contracts to utilities, in
   which it delivered an entire nuclear plant for a fixed price. To keep
   up, Westinghouse followed suit, causing a surge in orders. But this
   sales ploy turned out to be a money-loser for both firms in the end.

   The boom in reactor construction coincided with the beginnings of
   America's environmental movement and a sense of growing unease about
   nuclear power. By the early 1970s uncertainties over radioactive-waste
   disposal, the effects of radiation and the potential consequences of a
   nuclear accident prompted a backlash. One frightening scenario was the
   "China Syndrome": the idea that molten radioactive fuel undergoing a
   runaway reaction might burn its way through the bottom of the
   reactor's pressure vessel and containment structure, and then down
   into the Earth. Of course the fuel would never actually reach China,
   but were it to breach the containment structure, the result could be a
   huge release of radioactivity.

   As electricity demand levelled off and interest rates shot up,
   applications to build nuclear reactors started to decline, at least in
   America. Then in 1979 a serious accident occurred at a plant at Three
   Mile Island, near Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. A combination of
   mechanical failures and operator errors caused a partial melting of
   the reactor core. Fortunately the pressure vessel housing the core
   held, and virtually no dangerous radioactive gases escaped from the
   plant, says J. Samuel Walker, the historian of the Nuclear Regulatory
   Commission, the agency that regulates America's nuclear power plants.
   Although the accident nearly killed off America's nuclear-power
   industry, it did not harm any people.

   But a few years later a true disaster occurred. In 1986 a reactor at
   Chernobyl in Ukraine became unstable, and a power surge inside the
   core led to two explosions that destroyed the reactor and blew its
   roof off. As a result, significant amounts of radioactive material
   escaped into the environment. About 30 emergency workers died of
   radiation exposure shortly after the accident. Thousands more people
   who lived in contaminated areas developed serious health problems,
   some of them fatal. The cause of the accident was found to be a
   combination of operator errors and inherent flaws in the plant's
   design. Industry insiders pointed out that reactors based on this
   flawed design had not been deployed in Western countries. Even so, the
   accident further undermined public confidence in nuclear power.

   Although the nuclear industry faced decline or stagnation in many
   Western countries in the 1980s, it thrived in one of them: France.
   After the oil crisis of 1973, France decided to pursue the goal of
   fossil-fuel independence. With few energy resources of its own,
   pursuing nuclear power seemed like the best strategy. All the
   commercial nuclear plants operating in France today were based on
   technology devised by Westinghouse, which licensed its PWR design to
   France in the 1960s. Today the country has 59 nuclear reactors
   supplying 78% of its electricity.

   Nuclear has worked well in France in part because it is accepted by
   politicians and the public alike, so there are few delays due to
   protests or planning problems. Elsewhere, these have lengthened the
   construction period and enormously increased costs. Once up and
   running, however, nuclear plants have a distinct advantage over those
   run on coal or natural gas: they need comparatively little fuel to
   operate. Although the price of uranium jumped from about $70 per pound
   in January to about $130 in mid-July, operating costs of nuclear power
   plants have changed very little. (Construction accounts for as much as
   three-quarters of the cost of nuclear generation.) Moreover, the rise
   in the price has prompted an exploration boom that will ultimately
   lead to more mines and greater supply. Uranium is not thought to be
   particularly scarce--it has simply not been very profitable to look
   for it recently.

   The latest generation of reactors, which evolved from models
   constructed in the 1970s and 1980s, include important improvements
   over prior designs. Westinghouse's new AP1000, for example, has
   "passive safety" systems that can prevent a meltdown during an
   emergency without operator intervention. If the reactor loses pressure
   because of a loss of coolant, for example, pressurised tanks deliver
   water to the core, since the pressure in the tanks is higher than that
   in the core, explains Howard Bruschi, who has worked for Westinghouse
   since the 1960s and is now a consultant to the company. The new
   reactor's simplified design also means that fewer motors, pumps and
   pipes are needed, reducing not only the potential for mechanical
   errors, but also costs of maintenance, inspections and repairs.
   Westinghouse recently agreed to provide four new plants to China.

   Soul of a new reactor

   Meanwhile, Areva, a French nuclear company, is engineering ever more
   powerful plants. Its first reactor, which began operating in 1977, was
   rated at 900 megawatts; its latest model, the evolutionary power
   reactor (EPR), is a 1,600-megawatt design. The company has already
   begun building two such plants in Europe: one in Finland, which is now
   expected to start operating in 2011, about two years late, and another
   in France. Both the EPR and the AP1000, along with GE's latest design,
   are among the plants under consideration by American utilities.

   A demonstration plant of a completely different type, a "pebble bed"
   reactor, is scheduled to be built in South Africa starting in 2009.
   Based on technology that originated in Germany, its design is unique
   in several ways. For one thing, its small size (165 megawatts) should
   make it comparatively fast and cheap to build; depending on power
   needs, several units sharing a single control room could be
   constructed on one site. And the uranium fuel is encapsulated in
   rugged "pebbles", the size of tennis balls, which are designed to
   withstand a loss of coolant without disintegrating, making the reactor
   extremely safe. Andrew Kadak, a professor at the Massachusetts
   Institute of Technology (MIT), who has been developing a smaller,
   alternative pebble-bed design with his students, is convinced that
   "these reactors cannot melt down."

   Even though new designs for nuclear plants may be safer, they still
   generate toxic waste. After about three years of use, the fuel is
   depleted of most fissile uranium but has accumulated long-lived
   radioactive materials that cannot be burned in conventional reactors.
   At the moment most such waste is stored near the plant until it can be
   moved to a permanent facility. But no country is yet operating a final
   disposal site for highly radioactive nuclear waste. America's Yucca
   Mountain repository, for example, is not expected to be ready for use
   for many years, if ever. In some countries nuclear waste is
   "reprocessed"--a procedure in which plutonium is separated from the
   rest of the spent fuel, which can then be made into new fuel.
   Plutonium, of course, can be used to make nuclear weapons. Because of
   concern over nuclear proliferation, America has not engaged in
   civilian reprocessing since 1977.

   As part of a new multinational initiative called the Global Nuclear
   Energy Partnership (GNEP), however, America's Department of Energy is
   supporting a type of spent fuel reprocessing which does not separate
   the plutonium from other highly radioactive materials in the waste,
   thus making it more resistant to proliferation than traditional
   reprocessing. This mixture of plutonium and other radioactive elements
   could then be turned into fuel suitable for use in "fast" reactors.
   Most reactors in operation today are called "thermal" reactors,
   because they use a moderator to slow down the neutrons and promote
   fission. Fast reactors, in contrast, do not employ moderators and use
   much faster neutrons to produce fissions. So they can consume many of
   the long-lived radioactive materials that thermal reactors cannot.

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

                  They don't build them like they used to

   This approach could extract far more energy from a given amount of
   nuclear fuel while at the same time reducing the volume and toxicity
   of nuclear waste. Proponents of fast reactors reckon that most of the
   remaining waste would need to be stored for only a few centuries,
   perhaps, rather than hundreds of thousands of years, once the most
   radioactive elements had been separated out. According to the Nuclear
   Energy Institute, a lobby group in Washington, DC, this could mean
   that America would need only one nuclear-waste repository. In the long
   term, a fleet of fast reactors could use nuclear fuel so efficiently
   that "for all practical purposes, the uranium would be inexhaustible,"
   says William Hannum, a nuclear physicist who used to work at America's
   Argonne National Laboratory.

   But opponents of this strategy call it a distraction that could hinder
   the renewal of the nuclear power industry. For one thing, many new
   fast reactors and fuel-reprocessing facilities would have to be built,
   adding billions of dollars to the enormous sums already required for
   new nuclear plants. In addition, some of the technologies in question
   have not been demonstrated on a commercial scale yet. And the GNEP
   reverses America's ban on civilian reprocessing, which critics say
   could encourage the proliferation of weapons-grade materials.

   In the end, the deployment of new nuclear reactors will depend on many
   factors, including successful waste and proliferation management,
   improved economics, and perhaps most important, convincing the public
   that nuclear reactors can be operated safely. Despite these obstacles,
   there is an undeniable mood of optimism in the industry. Whether that
   will be enough to spark the deployment of the hundreds of reactors
   that will be needed to help mitigate the effects of global warming
   remains to be seen, cautions Richard Lester, a professor of nuclear
   science and engineering at MIT. Were there to be another disaster like
   Chernobyl, or a successful terrorist attack on a nuclear plant, all
   bets would be off. But for now most people in the industry agree that
   nuclear power's prospects look brighter than they have in a long time.


   Leftist rhetoric distracts from a move towards the centre

   THE Liberal Democrats, often neglected by the media, got their own
   back at their annual conference in Brighton this week. Journalists
   decamping to the coastal town were looking forward to some of the
   internal strife that has made Britain's third party an intermittently
   rewarding beat in recent years: a leadership putsch, for example, or a
   showdown between the different strands of liberalism that sometimes
   make the party hard to handle. They had, instead, to get their heads
   around some serious bits of policy-making.

   To be sure, there are grumbles about Sir Menzies Campbell, the party
   leader, who is prone to presentational gaffes and seems older than his
   66 years. But there is little desire for a contest only 18 months
   after he replaced Charles Kennedy. Delegates also play down the
   ideological fault-line between the "Orange Bookers", a group of mostly
   young MPs who are authors of a tome espousing economic as well as
   social liberalism, and more conventionally left-wing elements of the
   party. All political parties, they note, are uneasy coalitions.

   And yet a divide of sorts did emerge in Brighton: that between the
   party's rhetoric, which is flirting heavily with the populist left,
   and its policies, most of which are assiduously centrist. On September
   16th Sir Menzies lambasted the rich for having done "too well" under
   Labour. The following day Vince Cable, the party's Treasury spokesman,
   deplored Britain's generous tax treatment of internationally mobile
   wealth, labelling Gordon Brown the "patron saint of the super-rich".
   After that Mr Kennedy reminded delegates that, when the party went
   into the last election promising to raise the top rate of income tax,
   it won its largest number of parliamentary seats for 80 years.

   Such language is not without a tactical rationale: polls show that
   most Britons, including Tory voters, believe that the richest should
   pay more tax. And it may be the only way of retaining left-wing voters
   who defected to the party from Labour over the Iraq war at the last
   election.

   But it also disguises the real drift of party policy, which is towards
   the middle ground. Having proposed an extra penny on the basic rate of
   income tax under Mr Kennedy, the Liberal Democrats now plan a
   four-pence cut. This would be offset by tax hikes elsewhere,
   especially on those who pollute: under Chris Huhne, their environment
   spokesman, the Lib Dems have become the first of the big parties to
   aim for a zero-carbon Britain. But the party's stomach for imposing
   heavier direct taxes on large sections of the electorate has gone.

   Its line on public services--long criticised as mere demands for
   higher spending, and uncosted ones at that--is also starting to
   embrace market reforms. Norman Lamb, the party's health spokesman,
   wants to put more NHS funding into the hands of patients: pregnant
   women, for example, should be able to purchase care from independent
   midwives. David Laws, who holds the schools brief, insists that just
   pouring more money into the system won't help Britain's failing
   pupils.

   Even on civil liberties, the issue which (along with the environment)
   most animates Liberal Democrats, there is a gap between rhetoric and
   policy. The conference's opening rally saw Sir Menzies share a
   platform with Shami Chakrabarti, head of a campaign group named
   Liberty, who used the opportunity to call Lord Carlile, the Lib Dem
   peer who reviews anti-terrorism laws for the government, a "public
   champion for internment". The party's policy in this area is rather
   more pragmatic. Nick Clegg, the home-affairs spokesman, balances his
   opposition to extending detention without trial with ideas to bring
   suspects to court more quickly, and proposes a qualified rather than
   an absolute amnesty for illegal immigrants.

   Some Orange Bookers admit that the left-wing tone various leading Lib
   Dems struck this week may have distracted attention from the serious
   work on policy. Not an incendiary revelation, but perhaps the closest
   journalists will get to an internal rift in the party anytime soon.


   Medicine: A new device detects heartbeats and brain activity at a
   distance, doing away with uncomfortable electrodes

   AS ANYONE who has undergone an electrocardiograph (ECG) examination
   knows, it is an uncomfortable procedure that involves sticky
   electrodes which seem to want to rip out your body hair when they are
   removed. This is because the current the electrodes detect is weak,
   and a really good contact needs to be made between apparatus and skin.

   Robert Prance and his colleagues at the University of Sussex, in
   England, plan to do away with all that. They have developed a device
   that can act as an ECG--or its cranial equivalent, an
   electroencephalograph--without even touching the skin. It does so by
   measuring the signal without drawing current, using "high impedance"
   sensors.

   Impedance is related to resistance--which, as generations of
   schoolchildren have had drummed into them, is the ratio of voltage to
   current. If current and voltage are fluctuating, however, other
   factors come into play, as the current and voltage interact with each
   other. Impedance is a measure of electrical resistance that captures
   the effects of this feedback.

   The advantage of using high-impedance sensors is that the signal--an
   electric potential--can be measured at a distance. This is because the
   resistance is so great that a layer of air makes no appreciable
   difference. Indeed, Mr Prance's new device can pick up the trace of a
   heartbeat from a metre away. It can also sense electrical activity in
   the brain through the hair.

   The result is a probe that can easily be picked up by medics and held
   close to the patient. Wires attached to the back of the probe lead to
   a computer that translates the electrical signals into a picture of
   the heartbeat, brainwave or whatever. A test version developed by the
   team was the size of a watch and was worn on the wrist. The final
   version will be of similar size, but will not touch the skin.

   Mr Prance hopes that his invention will not merely be more comfortable
   than today's electrode-based detectors, but will also be able to do
   new things. His team is experimenting with the use of many sensors in
   combination to produce pictures of electrical activity in the heart.
   An electrical wave traverses the heart each time it beats,
   co-ordinating the contraction and relaxation of the chambers that pump
   blood around the body. By joining 25 sensors together, the researchers
   hope to demonstrate the technique's potential as a medical-imaging
   tool. It would be difficult to do this trick with conventional
   detectors.

   Nor is the high-impedance technique restricted to medical
   applications. It is already being adapted to look for faults in
   microelectronic circuits, and it might eventually be used to test
   mechanical components made of stainless steel or carbon fibre for
   structural integrity. It could thus be used to give machines, as well
   as people, a clean bill of health.


   After months of prevarication Gordon Brown must settle the bank's fate




   IF FINANCE were art, the slow-motion demise of Northern Rock would
   surely belong to the surrealist school. Magritte's enigmatic picture
   of a smoker's pipe, captioned "This is not a pipe", deserves pride of
   place at the mortgage lender's Newcastle head office. This is a bank,
   after all, that is supposedly still in private hands and solvent, even
   though it is propped up by breathtaking amounts of public money. The
   painting also merits a place at Downing Street, as ministers chase in
   diminishing circles to maintain the surrealist tease that "This is not
   a publicly owned bank".

   An extraordinary--in both senses of the word--meeting of Northern
   Rock's shareholders on January 15th added a scene from the theatre of
   the absurd. Held at Newcastle's Metro Radio Arena, which was playing
   host later in the week to the "Ultimate Fighting Championship", the
   meeting was an attempt by two hedge funds, which own 18% of the bank,
   to assert shareholders' interests. Their goal was to restrict the
   board's ability to resolve Northern Rock's difficulties by issuing new
   shares or selling assets. In the event, only one of their four
   resolutions was adopted.

   Even as shareholders voted, however, the stockmarket was passing
   judgment on their brazen assumption that they were still in charge. In
   February last year Northern Rock's share price touched 12.58
   ($24.77), valuing the bank at more than 5 billion; on the day of the
   meeting the price fell by 16% to 69p. And with reason. Shareholders'
   shrivelled equity is now worth less than 300m, whereas public
   financial backing for Northern Rock--25 billion in lending by the
   Bank of England and another 30 billion in Treasury guarantees--totals
   55 billion. Taxpayers' total exposure amounts to at least half of
   Northern Rock's balance sheet.

   By refusing to handcuff the bank's board, shareholders kept open the
   possibility of a private-sector rescue, which Alistair Darling, the
   chancellor of the exchequer, said again on January 15th was his
   preferred option. Yet that evening Gordon Brown, the prime minister,
   gave his strongest hint so far that Northern Rock might be
   nationalised. Its share price slipped further the following day.

   The government faces this stark choice--between finding a fully
   financed private-sector saviour (which now looks increasingly
   elusive), taking the bank into public ownership or just letting it go
   bust--because it failed to prepare for a banking belly-flop in a
   changed financial world. Not so long ago the Bank of England could
   have orchestrated a rescue by Britain's top banks. But today's more
   open and competitive financial environment requires a new way of
   dealing with banking emergencies.

   Britain is the only country in the G7 club of leading economies
   without a special public mechanism for grabbing control of a failing
   bank and ensuring that depositors get their money without delay. The
   government is now planning to give such powers to regulators at the
   Financial Services Authority, but these will come too late to help
   Northern Rock. If it were to become insolvent, deposits could well be
   frozen despite the Treasury's guarantees.

   This failure to reform before banking disaster struck is now costing
   the government dear. Private-sector saviours are proving thin on the
   ground. Several firms, including J.C. Flowers, an American
   private-equity company experienced in sorting out ailing financial
   institutions, initially expressed interest in this one. But only two
   contenders are still in the ring. One is a consortium led by Sir
   Richard Branson's Virgin Group, which would take a controlling
   interest in the bank. The other is Olivant Advisors, a
   private-investment firm headed by Luqman Arnold, formerly the boss of
   a rival bank, Abbey National. Olivant proposes taking a minority stake
   in Northern Rock and turning it around through better management.

   Both would-be rescuers are stumbling over the same hurdle, however.
   Each has promised swift repayment to the Bank of England of a sizeable
   chunk of its lending: Virgin has promised 11 billion and Olivant
   between 10 billion and 15 billion. But the money must be borrowed to
   fulfil that pledge, and the financial crisis of the past few months
   has left banks both short of capital and leery of risk, especially as
   the mortgage market turns down.

   Time is now running short. Mr Darling has set a deadline of February
   for any private-sector solution, in part because European Union
   approval for the current package of state support lasts for only six
   months. At the end of last year the Treasury asked Goldman Sachs, an
   investment bank, to explore whether it could raise the necessary
   private finance where others had failed. Goldman's apparent delay in
   presenting a final report suggests that it has been unable to crack
   the nut.

   That leaves nationalisation as the only remaining remedy, and it is an
   unpalatable one. The government has been preparing the ground: on
   January 12th it emerged that Ron Sandler, who sorted out the Lloyds's
   of London insurance market a decade ago, will take charge of Northern
   Rock if it is nationalised. Taking the bank into public hands would
   nonetheless be politically embarrassing for Mr Brown, who has been as
   keen as Tony Blair for Labour to shed its reputation as the party of
   state ownership. And it would probably mean breaking one of his
   self-imposed fiscal rules, as at least half the bank's liabilities
   would move on to the public books. But where Northern Rock is
   concerned, a dose of realism is long overdue.


   A convenient diary mix-up proves embarrassing for the prime minister

   [3]Gordon Brown

   IT DID not take long for the "Macavity" jibes to start, once word
   spread that an unconvincing diary clash would prevent Gordon Brown
   from attending a ceremony in Lisbon to sign the European Union's
   controversial reform treaty. When it subsequently emerged that Mr
   Brown would fly to Lisbon on December 13th anyway, to sign the treaty
   discreetly after the main ceremony had finished, the jokes gave way to
   head-shaking disbelief in several capitals.

   Westminster insiders long ago began to notice that Mr Brown has a
   talent for not being there when trouble hits. Lord Turnbull, once
   Britain's top civil servant, merely put a name to it when he compared
   him last March to T.S. Eliot's fictional cat. Now Europeans are
   learning about this trait for themselves.

   The treaty is deeply unpopular in Britain. It is disliked both by
   those who fear that it undercuts their country's freedom of action in
   important respects and by those who resent being denied a referendum
   on it, even though one was promised by Tony Blair, Mr Brown's
   predecessor, on the constitution that the treaty largely re-packages.

   So while EU leaders prepared for a familiar ritual on December 13th
   (solemn signatures in some ancient palace--or, in this case, a
   monastery--followed by champagne toasts and speeches about European
   unity), Mr Brown announced that he could not miss a scheduled grilling
   by committee chairmen in the House of Commons. Only after that could
   he fly to Lisbon to catch the end of an EU leaders' lunch. At some
   point, during coffee perhaps, he would pop off and sign the treaty.

   Alas for Mr Brown, this grudging half-visit seems the worst of all
   worlds. Eurosceptics in Britain are enraged that Mr Brown is signing
   the treaty at all. In Brussels the prime minister's antics inspired
   embarrassment and puzzlement--not least when his aides insisted that
   the timing of the Lisbon ceremony was known too late to alter Mr
   Brown's diary. Pained European officials noted that Mr Brown was
   personally informed of the date, time and place of the ceremony in
   October by the prime minister of Portugal, which holds the current
   rotating presidency of the EU.

   Strictly speaking, diplomatic protocol did not require Mr Brown to be
   there--his foreign secretary, David Miliband, was already due in
   Lisbon for the ceremony, and ministers have signed treaties before.
   The Single European Act, for example--a more significant text--was
   signed by Lynda Chalker, then a junior minister. But the Portuguese
   had hoped that if national leaders signed the treaty in person, the
   symbolism of the event would draw a line under the crisis provoked in
   2005, when French and Dutch voters rejected the original constitution.

   Mr Brown's snub will be forgiven--in the end, Brussels folk see it as
   an internal problem, intelligible only to the British. But the
   dithering beforehand (unnamed British "sources" had hinted that he
   might not go to Lisbon at all) was more problematic, as was the
   lameness of his excuse. In diplomacy, indecision can be as harmful as
   the final decision taken.


   An intriguing plea deal in America has big implications for Britain

   IF BRITISH businessmen were worried before, they are positively
   quaking now, wondering who will be seized next by the ever-extending
   arm of American law. On December 10th Conrad Black, a Canadian turned
   British peer, was sentenced in Chicago to six and a half years in jail
   for embezzling $6.1m (3m) from his Hollinger media empire. A
   fortnight earlier, three British bankers pleaded guilty in a federal
   court in Houston to wire fraud related to the Enron affair, after
   being extradited from Britain to face trial.

   Both the so-called "NatWest Three", who are due to be sentenced in
   February, and Lord Black, who once controlled more than 200 newspapers
   around the globe, including Britain's Daily Telegraph, the Jerusalem
   Post and the Chicago Sun-Times, now face the prospect of a spell in
   one of America's less than salubrious jails, where sexual assault and
   drug-fuelled violence are often rife. Foreigners are not eligible for
   a minimum-security prison, but Lord Black is hoping at least for the
   gentler conditions of the next grade up--a low-security institution.

   But help for British white-collar crooks caught in America's legal net
   may be on the way. Under an unprecedented plea agreement involving the
   Department of Justice and Britain's Office of Fair Trading (OFT),
   three British oil executives, who pleaded guilty in a Houston court
   this week to price-fixing, are being permitted to return to Britain
   next week. They have agreed that, once back, they will allow
   themselves to be re-arrested and re-charged by the British authorities
   with an almost identical offence, to which they will again plead
   guilty.

   Peter Whittle, a consultant, and Bryan Allison and David Brammar, both
   of Dunlop Oil & Marine, a firm that makes equipment for the oil and
   gas industry, are accused of conspiring between 1999 and 2007 to fix
   the prices of hundreds of millions of dollars worth of marine hoses
   used to transfer oil between tankers and storage facilities. The
   charge is of price-fixing on a global scale, which affected both the
   American and the British markets.

   Under America's Sherman Antitrust Act, they could have faced up to ten
   years in jail. Under English competition law, the maximum penalty for
   price-fixing is half that. According to the men's still-secret plea
   deal with the American authorities, they are understood to have
   negotiated jail terms of around two years or less, which they will be
   allowed to serve in Britain provided the sentence imposed by the
   English courts is at least as long. If it is not, the Americans
   reserve the right to seek the men's extradition back to the United
   States to serve the remainder of their American sentence there.

   Alistair Graham, a partner at White & Case, finds the deal a
   "fascinating development". His law firm is fighting another
   extradition case, that of Ian Norris, a British executive facing
   price-fixing charges on the other side of the Atlantic. "The British
   and American prosecuting authorities have been developing an
   increasingly close relationship in recent years." Both he and others
   worry, however, that this new spirit of co-operation might "get in the
   way of British justice", putting pressure on British judges to hand
   out more severe American-style sentences.

   The differences may shrink anyway, for Britain itself, once thought a
   touch languid in the pursuit of white-collar crime, is chasing
   price-fixers more hotly these days. The offence became a crime in
   Britain only in 2002; if the oil men are indeed tried at home, it will
   be the first criminal prosecution for price-fixing in British history.
   The Dunlop deal could blaze a trail.


   Stewart Brand, a pioneer of both environmentalism and online
   communities, has not lost his willingness to rock the boat


   IN SOME respects Stewart Brand's green credentials are impeccable. His
   mentor was Paul Ehrlich, an environmental thinker at Stanford
   university and author of "The Population Bomb", published in 1968.
   That book, and the related Club of Rome movement of the 1970s,
   famously predicted that overpopulation would soon result in the world
   running out of food, oil and other resources. Though it proved
   spectacularly wrong, its warning served as a clarion call for the
   modern environmental movement.

   Mr Brand made his name with a publication of his own, which also
   appeared in 1968, called "The Whole Earth Catalogue". It was a
   path-breaking manual crammed with examples of small-scale technologies
   to enable individuals to reduce their environmental impact, and is
   best known for its cover, which featured a picture of the Earth from
   space (which Mr Brand helped to persuade America's space agency, NASA,
   to release). The book became a bestseller in anti-corporate and
   environmental circles. In 1985 Mr Brand co-founded the WELL, a
   pioneering online community that was a precursor of today's
   social-networking websites such as MySpace and Facebook.

   Mr Brand still has a following among the Birkenstock set, and even
   lives on a tugboat near San Francisco. But meet him in person and it
   becomes clear he is not exactly your typical crunchy-granola green.
   Sitting down to lunch at a posh beach resort on Coronado Island, off
   San Diego, he does not order a vegan special but a hearty Angus burger
   with bacon, cheese and French fries, and a side-order of lobster
   bisque. "I'm genetically a contrarian," he says with a broad smile.

   Three unpopular ideas

   That is pretty evident from his recent proclamations. Rather than
   basking in past glories or sailing off to a quiet retirement, the
   68-year-old counter-cultural icon remains determined to rock the boat.
   But this time his target is the environmental movement itself. He has
   come up with a series of what he calls "environmental heresies", which
   he hopes will influence a new generation of pragmatic, problem-solving
   greens. Three things that most greens vehemently oppose--genetic
   engineering, urbanisation and nuclear power--should, he believes, be
   embraced on environmental grounds.

   Start with genetic engineering. Many greens object to the idea,
   fearing a deluge of "Frankenfoods" and the contamination of pristine
   wild species. But Mr Brand points to the work of Norman Borlaug, the
   Nobel prize-winner who proved the Club of Rome (and Mr Brand) wrong
   with his "green revolution" in agricultural productivity. Mr Brand now
   sees great promise in using genetic science to feed the world, and
   perhaps prevent future wars, by making crops that are more
   disease-resistant, drought-tolerant and produce higher yields.

   Similarly, he argues that urbanisation can be good for the
   environment. Mankind has now become a primarily urban species for the
   first time in its history, and every serious forecast predicts a surge
   in the size and number of megacities. Most environmentalists are
   dismayed at this trend, and worry about the implications of
   urbanisation for air pollution, resource consumption and so on. But Mr
   Brand bluntly rebuts them, insisting that megacities "will increase
   the Earth's carrying capacity for humans".

   That may seem an odd argument from a man who wrote a guide to natural
   living and going "off grid", but it reflects another aspect of the
   maturation of his views. Cities are good for the planet, he argues,
   because they are engines of wealth creation, and greater prosperity
   makes promoting greenery easier. When poor people move from bleak
   subsistence farming to the economic opportunities found in urban
   slums, he insists, they no longer need to chop down endangered trees
   or eat bush meat. "Nature grows back," says Mr Brand. He also believes
   cities unleash innovation--pointing to the use of mobile phones in
   slums to send money--and reckons the next big trend will come "not
   from Japanese schoolgirls, but slum-dwellers in Africa".

   Mr Brand's critics accuse him of romanticising the potential of
   megacities. But his support for the revival of nuclear power is even
   more controversial. For years, he held the orthodox environmental view
   that nukes were evil. He now confesses that this was merely "knee-jerk
   opposition", and not a carefully considered opinion. His growing
   concern about global warming, which he calls "the single most
   important environmental threat facing mankind", explains his U-turn in
   favour of this low-carbon but hugely controversial source of
   electricity.

   The turning point came, he says, when he visited Yucca Mountain, a
   remote site in the Nevada desert where American officials plan to bury
   the country's nuclear waste. He was visiting the site as part of his
   Long Now project, which aims to build a "clock" that will last 10,000
   years or more in the hope of encouraging society to think about very
   long-term issues. While studying the deep hole in the ground at Yucca
   for tips on building his clock--the site, like the clock, is being
   designed to survive unscathed for thousands of years--he had an
   epiphany.

   Although greens and other anti-nuclear activists oppose the Yucca
   Mountain project, Mr Brand says he realised that "we are asking the
   wrong question" about nuclear power. Rather than asking how spent
   nuclear fuel can be kept safe for 10,000 to 100,000 years, he says, we
   should worry about keeping it safe for only 100 years. Because nuclear
   waste still contains an enormous amount of energy, future generations
   may be able to harness it as an energy source through tomorrow's
   better technologies.

   His embrace of nuclear power was another surprising about-face, and
   plenty of energy experts, including some of his close friends,
   disagree with him. One of them is Amory Lovins, the head of the Rocky
   Mountain Institute, a natural-resources consultancy. Mr Brand recalls
   attending Mr Lovins's wedding many years ago in an American Indian
   sweat tent, where Mr Lovins and his (now ex) wife Hunter exchanged
   hunting knives in a traditional ceremony. Mr Lovins argues that the
   economics of big nuclear power plants make no sense, and that the
   future belongs to energy efficiency and small-scale, distributed
   "micropower" plants based on renewable energy sources.

                                                  [spacer.gif] [gray.gif]
                                                             [spacer.gif]
     "Environmental change changes everything, including environmentalism
                                                                 itself."
                                                             [spacer.gif]
                                                               [gray.gif]

   That friendly debate points to some awkward aspects of Mr Brand's
   self-styled environmental heresy. For one thing, the decentralised
   approach to power generation advocated by Mr Lovins seems more in tune
   with the do-it-yourself ethos of "The Whole Earth Catalogue" than the
   big nuclear power plants now championed by Mr Brand. And Mr Brand's
   argument for taking a more short-term view of nuclear safety seems to
   fly directly in the face of his Long Now project, which is intended to
   promote a more long-term perspective.

   The apparent contradiction is made more glaring by the fact that Mr
   Brand has made a tidy packet from long-term planning through his
   Global Business Network (GBN), a respected scenario-planning and
   futurology outfit. Some greens grouse that GBN's work with big oil
   companies and the American military is unethical, but Mr Brand has
   little patience for such narrow-mindedness. "Saying all companies are
   evil is like saying all greens are romantic twits," he says. "You need
   to discriminate!" To bolster his point, he points to what he calls the
   quiet but influential role that Royal Dutch/Shell played in South
   Africa's peaceful end to apartheid. He also defends his military
   clients with vigour, noting that they are often "more serious" and
   "longer-term thinkers" than business clients.

   So how does he respond to the apparent conflict between the
   long-termism of the Long Now project and the much shorter-term view of
   nuclear waste he uses to justify new nuclear power? He neatly
   sidesteps the contradiction. "Coal and carbon-loading the atmosphere
   are much bigger problems for the future than nuclear waste, which is a
   relatively minor risk," he says.

   Shades of green

   This willingness to get his hands dirty and balance one risk against
   another, rather than clinging to ideologically pure positions when
   confronted with difficult choices, sets Mr Brand apart from the many
   ideologues in the environmental movement. Indeed, he proudly calls
   himself an "eco-pragmatist". He argues that two ideological camps have
   dominated the green movement for too long: "the scientists and the
   romantics". The former group has been stuck in the ivory tower, while
   the latter has held on to noble but impractical views that, he
   reckons, have often been contrary to rational scientific thinking. The
   grip that these two rival camps have had on environmentalism, he says,
   explains its malaise.

   But growing public awareness of climate change and other green
   concerns promises to end this. "Environmental change changes
   everything," he insists, "and among the biggest change of all will be
   in environmentalism itself." As environmental issues have moved up the
   technological agenda, says Mr Brand, there has been a large influx of
   engineers into the environmental movement. These "techies" had
   previously been deeply sceptical of greenery, but he now thinks they
   may save the cause even as they save the planet. Unlike the romantics
   and the airy scientists, he says, "engineers focus on solving
   problems."

   He points approvingly to Elon Musk, a South African technology
   entrepreneur, and his green engineers at Tesla Motors, an electric-car
   firm. Mr Brand also tips his hat toward Mr Lovins, whom he praises as
   an early example of a problem-solving "engineer" (he is actually a
   physicist by training) who embraced the green cause. But this new
   generation of green engineers will only be able to transform the
   environmental movement, Mr Brand reckons, if the old guard allows it
   to. "Let's see if there is an allergic reaction to this infusion or
   real progress," he quips.

   Mr Brand's own pragmatism can be seen in his willingness to own up to
   his mistakes and learn from them. When his alarmism over the Y2K
   computer bug turned out to be wrong, for example, it made him realise
   that his own personal computer was a poor proxy for the world at
   large, which is "modular, shockproof and robust". And the key mistake
   made by the Club of Rome's forecasts (which he calls "self-defeating
   prophesies"), he now acknowledges, was to see the world as static, and
   to place too little faith in the possibilities of technological
   progress.

   His critics might argue that Mr Brand now places too much faith in
   clever engineers and fancy technology to solve the world's
   environmental problems. But he can respond that his pragmatic approach
   goes back a long way, and has deep roots. As he put it in the
   introduction to "The Whole Earth Catalogue", written four decades ago:
   "We are as gods and might as well get good at it."




   Gordon Brown risks provoking two dangers that he is trying to avert

   [3]Gordon Brown

   IN DOSTOYEVSKY'S novel "The Idiot", the hero--part savant, part
   blundering naf--arrives at an important party with only one goal in
   mind: not to break the hostess's valuable Chinese vase. He wants to
   keep his distance, but ends up smashing it. The episode is a nice
   parable of anxiety-management; it shows how trying too hard to avert a
   danger can instead make it happen.

   Gordon Brown is himself part deep-thinking ascetic, part inadvertent
   blunderer, and he risks making the same mistake, in more than one way.
   A wrong-headed overkill--one that may help to induce the outcome that
   is most feared--is evident in his controversial plan to increase from
   28 days the time suspected terrorists can be held without charge.
   Behind that lies another counterproductive anxiety, one which is
   hobbling Mr Brown's broader mission: his yearning to keep Labour in
   office beyond the roughly 28 more months that, by coincidence, are the
   maximum its current mandate allows.

   In fact his best hope of sticking around for longer is simple: to stop
   worrying about the electoral vase in the corner, give up his
   underwhelming party tricks and concentrate on the far-sighted
   governing that, beneath the mishaps, he is capable of delivering.

   The days are numbered

   Mr Brown sensibly compares the Islamist threat that Britain now faces
   to the cold war, describing it as a generational struggle that must be
   waged in classrooms, libraries and prisons, as well as with bullets.
   But this grown-up realism has been lost in the furore over pre-charge
   detention, which has again become a totemic but needless test of the
   government's strength.

   The prime minister and Jacqui Smith, his embattled home secretary, now
   want to give the police the temporary power to hold terrorism suspects
   for up to 42 days before charging them. That is a humbler goal than
   the push for a 90-day maximum that in 2005 brought Tony Blair his
   first defeat in the House of Commons, after which the current limit
   was set. The latest figure splits the difference (never an encouraging
   sign) with the one of 56 that has been floated since Mr Brown became
   prime minister. The new power would be overseen by judges and MPs, and
   would avowedly be invoked only in exceptional circumstances. Unlike
   his predecessor, Mr Brown seems genuinely attached to the concept of
   liberty, but thinks these provisos make his scheme compatible with
   that principle.

   Unfortunately, they don't. For example, the parliamentary scrutiny
   that forms the main extra safeguard--MPs would get a vote on whether
   the home secretary is right temporarily to stretch the detention
   limit--would sometimes be exercised only after the suspect had been
   banged up for the extra weeks. Since it would make their job easier,
   the police are keen on the move; but most other legal and security
   bigwigs doubt that the extension is justified. The government itself
   accepts that no circumstances have yet arisen in which more than 28
   days have been required, but says such cases may happen in the
   future--an open-ended rationale that might be used to advocate more or
   less anything (torture, say, or maybe the odd covert assassination).

   So anyone who thinks Britain may be quietly sliding towards a state of
   permanent emergency should worry (again). But even fervent
   utilitarians should pay attention, for two reasons. First, although
   the evidence backing the need for change is scant, there is plenty of
   proof that insensitive policing and draconian laws risk alienating,
   and perhaps radicalising, British Muslims: an unintended outcome much
   more catastrophic than the Idiot's broken ornament. Second, this itch
   to push beyond 28 days epitomises what has been the key failing and
   frustration of Mr Brown's bid to survive beyond 28 months: a tendency
   to obscure his own merits, and damage his own prospects, by myopically
   pursuing short-term advantage.

   Governments are naturally inclined to insulate themselves from the
   charge that they have been lax with the public's safety; many security
   initiatives have an obvious political edge. In the case of Labour's
   anti-terrorism laws, however, the edge has been especially sharp. Mr
   Brown insists that the Conservatives' opposition to his new policy is
   opportunistic. Since some Tory MPs privately agree with the
   government, his indignation is right as well as righteous. But the way
   the latest plans have been rushed out--before some inquiries designed
   to inform them are complete--casts doubt on his motives too. At least
   one of them may be a pressing desire to make a tabloid-friendly
   splash, to dispel the lacklustre impression created by the calamities
   of the past few weeks. The prospect of succeeding in Parliament where
   Mr Blair failed may also be a lure.

   Those unofficial explanations reflect the motives that have troubled
   Mr Brown's short premiership. These arose from the circumstances and
   timing of his succession. Mr Brown needed to distinguish himself from
   his predecessor, impress a jaundiced electorate and do it in hurry--or
   face being seen as a fag-end failure. But his clumsily urgent efforts
   to obviate that possibility, most obviously in the self-inflicted
   humiliation of the non-election, have instead made it more likely.
   Given the chance to expound on them, he has statesmanlike things to
   say about international affairs and thoughtful ones about the
   constitution. But just as his sensible thinking on terrorism has been
   overshadowed, so far his best ideas have scarcely got a hearing.

   Even if his worst electoral fears are realised, Mr Brown could make
   useful contributions in these fields, and others such as energy
   security, in the next 28 months. But if he can stick to the long
   perspective he can still avoid the Idiot's self-inflicted fate.
   Elections, after all, are more unsentimental referendums on the future
   than they are judgments on the past. Giving up the obsession with
   going beyond 28 days would be a good way for Mr Brown to signal a new,
   patient approach. Can he?


   New Labour is losing the support of business, and it matters

   ONLY in the City of London, where banks, shops and other employers
   choose the corporation that oversees the "square mile", can business
   say that taxation is truly based on representation. Elsewhere it has
   to hope the citizenry elects governments that are firm-friendly, and
   will resist the urge to nationalise, meddle or tax companies too much.
   But if business could vote, whom would it support?

   Surprisingly, as the party at least pretended to champion socialism
   until the early 1990s, the answer for most of the past decade would
   have been Labour. But that is now changing, and Gordon Brown, the
   prime minister, is fast discovering just how fickle businesspeople can
   be. They are trickling back to the Conservative Party, in earlier
   times their natural ally.

   This week, at the annual conference of the main business lobbying
   group, the CBI, the list of complaints was long, taking in red tape
   (too tangled), roads and airports (too congested) and taxes (too
   high). This much is standard: the CBI has members to recruit and dues
   to collect. Nor are such complaints made only against Labour
   governments. In 1980 the CBI chairman of the day threatened a
   "bare-knuckled fight" with Margaret Thatcher's government over
   interest rates and the price of sterling.

   But this year's conference was more sharply party-political than
   usual. Martin Broughton, chairman of British Airways and president of
   the CBI, not only criticised Mr Brown's policies and record but also
   praised David Cameron, the Conservative leader, for creating a strong
   "electable opposition" with views on business that are "well in synch
   with ours".

   Such words are heard with increasing frequency in British boardrooms
   these days. Many directors of top companies privately express their
   growing frustration with the government. Other business organisations,
   such as the Institute of Directors and British Chambers of Commerce,
   are also stepping up their attacks. Sensitive to shifting currents are
   the policy wonks at CEBR, an economic consultancy, who put out a paper
   this week that was catchily called "We need to start considering what
   a Tory Government might do".

   The strongest sign yet of a shift in sentiment is that even long-time
   business friends and supporters of Mr Brown and his party have become
   more openly critical. Some have shown a startling enthusiasm for
   change. Among them is Sir Ronald Cohen, a doyen of Britain's
   private-equity industry and long-time donor to the Labour Party. He
   said recently in a newspaper interview that there was "not much
   difference between the two parties" and that he would not mind if a
   Conservative government came to power.

   Why this shift, and why now? Cynics say it simply reflects the
   parties' changing fortunes. The Tories have not seen the inside of
   Downing Street since 1997; practicality counselled firms to back the
   winning horse. Now that political power is being seriously contested
   again, business may simply be placing its next bet.

   But there is more to it than that. Even before New Labour took office,
   it was busily buffing its pro-business credentials. Once in power the
   party both embraced the market and set the central bank free from
   politicians to set interest rates. Whether by skill or good fortune,
   Labour presided over a decade of low inflation, low interest rates and
   sustained economic growth. This was one of the main reasons for the
   party's electoral longevity.

   The drift away

   Three things explain why business support is draining away from
   Labour. First, its reputation for sound economic management has been
   damaged by its bungled handling of Northern Rock, a troubled mortgage
   lender, and by concerns about the slowing economy and housing market.
   Second, businesspeople suspect Labour has grown arrogant in power and
   no longer feels obliged to keep its side of the bargain struck a
   decade ago, especially with that friend of the rich, Tony Blair, out
   of the picture. Third, there is a growing sense of outrage at the vast
   sums the government has spent on the public sector to less than
   optimal effect, while the wealth-creating side of the economy has been
   weighed down with regulations and tax.

   Take the high-handed decision announced in October to raise
   capital-gains taxes to a flat 18% from an effective 10% on most
   business assets. Aimed at capturing some of the gains made by partners
   in private-equity firms, it is widely seen as an attack on small
   business. "The damage is in the signal it sends, which is that this is
   an economy that doesn't value entrepreneurs," says Arnaud de Meyer of
   the Judge Business School at Cambridge University.

   Taxing small businesspeople, who are mainly steadfast Tories, is
   unlikely to cost Mr Brown many votes. But John Curtice of Strathclyde
   University reckons public confidence in Labour as the party most
   trusted to run the economy, already declining, is likely to ebb faster
   as businesspeople air their doubts. A recent Populus poll shows the
   Tories well ahead on this point. Although business has no vote, in
   forfeiting its support, Mr Brown may well be scuppering his chances of
   re-election.


   Two pre-modern ailments are making a comeback

   AS BEFITS an industrialised country, Britain's public-health problems
   are those of wealth rather than poverty. But beneath headlines about
   fat, cigarettes and a national epidemic of drunkenness, two diseases
   that were believed vanquished decades ago are re-emerging. Both are
   linked to immigration.

   On December 28th the Department of Health (DoH) confirmed what doctors
   have long suspected: rickets seems to be on the rise. The
   disease--thought to have been eradicated in the 1950s--stunts growth
   and deforms the skeleton, characteristically causing bowed legs and
   worse.

   The other disease is tuberculosis, dimly remembered as an affliction
   of slum-dwellers and glamorous Victorian poets. Antibiotics and a
   national screening programme had all but wiped out "consumption" by
   the middle of the last century. Yet cases have been increasing since
   the mid-1980s. In 2000 6,323 were reported in Britain (excluding
   Scotland), or 11.7 for each 100,000 people; by 2006 that had risen to
   8,113, or 14.6 per 100,000, and the true number is thought to be
   higher.

   Migration is involved in the resurgence of both conditions, though in
   different ways. Rickets is usually caused by a lack of vitamin D,
   which is needed to absorb calcium to build bones. Most vitamin D is
   made when skin is exposed to sunlight. Not much sunshine is
   needed--around 15 minutes a day in summer--but obtaining it in
   Britain, with its grey climate, house-bound children and official
   warnings about skin cancer, can be tricky. North of around 52 degrees
   latitude (roughly, beyond Milton Keynes), the winter sun is too weak
   for vitamin D to be produced. Skin colour matters too: dark-skinned
   people require more sun. What scant data there are suggest that up to
   1 in 100 children from ethnic minorities may suffer from rickets.

   Whereas migrants from sunny countries may develop rickets after
   arriving in Britain, tuberculosis is a disease that often comes with
   them. Rates of infection are lowest among natives and highest among
   immigrants from Africa (see chart), where the disease is common in
   part because of the spread of AIDS, whose sufferers are particularly
   susceptible to infection. Tuberculosis is most common in the poorer
   areas of Britain's cities, which tend to have high immigrant
   populations and where poverty and deprivation erode resistance to the
   disease. Newham, a poor east London borough that is home to many
   immigrant families, has around 100 infections per 100,000 people, the
   highest rate in the country and comparable to China's figure.

   In theory, rickets is easy to cure: official advice is to get more
   sunshine and, for pregnant women and young children, to take vitamin D
   supplements (though only around a fifth of mothers heed it).
   Tuberculosis is harder to stamp out. Vaccinations, which used to be
   universal, have been reintroduced for children in high-risk areas.
   Immigrants from countries with the disease are offered screening when
   they arrive, although Chris Griffiths, a tuberculosis expert at Queen
   Mary, University of London, reckons the system is too leaky to catch
   all of them. Often those most at risk are hardest to reach. One
   drug-resistant strain has been circulating in Camden and Islington for
   five years, especially among homeless people and ex-prisoners. This
   has prompted suggestions that sufferers be detained in secure
   hospitals--a Victorian response to a Victorian disease.


   The super-casino gamble failed. What next?

   BLACKPOOL'S seafront is not the most tempting destination for a winter
   break. But the chill has not deterred one elderly couple, who have
   been coming once a fortnight from nearby Rochdale for more decades
   than they can remember. "It's the best place in England, this," they
   say. "But it could do with a lick of paint."

   Last week Blackpool narrowly missed out on a facelift worth 450m when
   it lost its bid to host Britain's first super-casino. An advisory
   panel chose nearby Manchester for the dubious honour instead. It
   surprised everyone, including the television crews who were waiting in
   Blackpool to film the joyous reaction that wasn't to be.

   "We feel mugged," says David Helliwell, the editor of the local
   Gazette. His staff are sifting through more than 2,000 letters from
   readers to pass on to Tessa Jowell, the culture secretary who endorsed
   the panel's decision, demanding that the recommendation be reversed.
   The area's four MPs are due to meet her soon too, though few expect
   her to change her mind. Nor is it likely that Parliament will overturn
   the decision.

   Most Britons are lukewarm about the super-casino, but in Blackpool it
   was seen as a lifeline. Less than two decades ago the Victorian
   working-class playground drew as many as 17m visitors a year, but
   these days it struggles to stay above 10m. Cheap package holidays to
   warmer climes sucked away many families in the 1980s, and big northern
   cities such as Leeds and Newcastle cornered the "weekend-break" market
   in the 1990s.

   Fewer tourists have meant fewer jobs. Between 1994 and 2005 the number
   of registered businesses in Blackpool slipped by 6%, though businesses
   across the country increased by 15%. Most of the victims were small
   guesthouses. Unemployment now stands at 7% and wages have sagged. In
   2002 the average Blackpudlian was paid 17% less than the average
   Briton; by 2006 the gap was 23%.

   Despite the dwindling numbers of visitors, Blackpool's infrastructure
   seems to have locked it into continuing dependence on tourism. Whole
   streets are given over to guesthouses (with 70,000 beds, Blackpool
   equals Madrid in capacity) and there is little space for new building
   (after Portsmouth, the borough is the most densely developed outside
   London). This is partly what makes the casino decision such a sore
   point, says Alan Cavill, head of development on Blackpool's council.
   Leisure tourism is the town's one strong suit--why give a big leisure
   attraction to a city such as Manchester that has many other options?

   Locals can take some cheer from a big lump of money that is going into
   developing Blackpool's surroundings. The seafront will be remodelled
   with 75m of government cash, plus 8m from the regional development
   agency to dress it up. With luck (and Blackpool is due some), a
   further 24m of lottery funding will provide the beach with a gaudy
   artistic show, which Mr Cavill promises will continue Blackpool's
   tradition of "challenging the boundaries of good taste". The seafront
   tramway is also due to be revamped.

   These projects should go some way towards providing the missing lick
   of paint. What remains to be found is a big chunk of private
   investment to get people into the town in the first place. A casino
   alternative remains elusive, but possible candidates include an indoor
   rainforest, a covered ski slope and a new branch of Legoland, a Danish
   theme-park chain.

   Whatever projects come to fruition, Blackpool landladies--legendarily
   tough--are finding ways to manage the decline. Pat Stokes, who runs
   the Mar-Ray guesthouse on Springfield Road, keeps her nine bedrooms
   full, thanks to her two new [3]websites. She is not bothered about the
   casino, she says; most of her customers are regulars. The traditional
   arcades are also wising up. Warwick Tunnicliffe, whose family has been
   in the amusements business since 1881, saw the writing on the wall in
   the 1980s and upped sticks from the touristy seafront to the town
   centre. Now, he reckons, 95% of the money in his slot machines comes
   from locals, sheltering him from seasonal ups and downs.

   New types of visitors are also helping to buoy Blackpool's economy.
   Along the promenade, bars and strip-clubs illustrate the rise of the
   lucrative stag- and hen-night market. Gay tourists have also proved a
   hit, as the rainbow flags running down Lord Street testify. Yet
   tradition endures: come lunchtime, Burger King, Bella Pasta and other
   modern pretenders are quiet. Everyone is in Harry Ramsden's, eating
   fish and chips.


   The meaning of Britain's favourite television programme



   IT IS hard to explain the enduring appeal of Bruce
   Forsyth--especially, perhaps, to anyone who isn't British. Mr Forsyth,
   who turns 80 next month, sports a silly toupee and an elongated chin.
   The jokes he makes in his high-camp nasal voice are too naff for
   reproduction in an upmarket newspaper. Yet Mr Forsyth is the
   improbable face of Britain's favourite television programme.

   Twelve million viewers saw him compere the finale of "Strictly Come
   Dancing" on December 22nd. The programme has water-cooler status in
   Britain, but is also a runaway hit abroad: the format has been
   licensed to 27 countries (and counting), from Chile to China, Russia
   to Australia, mostly under the name "Dancing with the Stars".
   Scandinavians and east Europeans are especially fanatical about it,
   but Americans are keen too. All that makes it and Mr Forsyth telling
   indicators of global entertainment trends and, by comparison,
   Britain's peculiarities.

   Not all the indications are happy ones. Though few are as contagious
   as this programme, Britain is the world's biggest exporter of
   television formats. Many of the top ones combine the same game
   show/reality TV elements, in increasingly baroque combinations:
   participants who jostle for viewers' affection by singing, cooking,
   having sex, eating grubs, etc; presenters and pantomime judges to
   oversee their humiliation; and premium-rate voting by the audience to
   determine the winners. All these hybrids and spin-offs can make it
   seem that viewers' choices are contracting, even as the number of
   channels multiplies.

   The latter-day gladiators in many of these shows are "celebrities": in
   "Strictly", as Mr Forsyth's programme is known among its British
   devotees, they are paired with professional dancers to compete against
   each other. Different sorts of people, it seems, count as celebrities
   in different places. In America, for example, one of them was an
   entrepreneur (not very likely in Britain). The last British series
   featured a balding ex-snooker player (not very likely in America).
   Many of the British contestants previously appeared in the sort of
   miserabilist soap operas, set in launderettes and fish-and-chip shops,
   which mystify American visitors. But some are has-beens and
   never-beens who gain celebrity status by appearing in programmes like
   this one. This model of celebrity--a shabby, evanescent thing,
   confected and disposable, harmless maybe but a bit depressing--has
   also been developed in Britain, and seems to be spreading too.

   For all that, there is something heartening about the way the
   programme has galvanised the international public. Heartening and--for
   others in the marketing business who fail to generate quite the same
   excitement, such as politicians--instructive.

   To see you, nice

   During his recent spell as acting leader of the Liberal Democrats,
   Vince Cable made some famously witty attacks on Gordon Brown. But the
   highlight of his stint, Mr Cable said when it ended, was dancing with
   the eventual winner of Strictly, even if it was "infinitely more
   nerve-wracking than standing up in the House of Commons". Politicians,
   he added, could learn a lot from such TV shows, which motivate
   millions of viewers to vote for their favourite performers, and pay
   for the privilege (Mr Brown, meanwhile, says he prefers watching
   sport).

   Part of the lesson may be that, whereas politics is remote and
   political parties confusingly similar, here the choice is clear, each
   vote counts equally, and the impact of voting is tangible and
   immediate. Like the renegade Victorian juries who compassionately
   acquitted pickpockets, British audiences tend to reward sweet if
   patently unco-ordinated underdogs while disposing of contestants who
   are too obviously trying to win. Mr Cable's victorious dance partner
   was an ex-pop star, who in one episode was brought tea and cake by her
   grannies.

   A facile conclusion might be that real elections should be conducted
   by phone, text message and other new media, like television voting.
   Yet Strictly's success probably rests less on its modernity than on
   its old-fashionedness. It is, at bottom, a cheesy variety show
   camouflaged as reality-TV. Beneath the razzmatazz and interactive
   paraphernalia, its central ingredient--as improbable as Mr Forsyth--is
   the dancing itself. Because of the programme's contagious spread, tens
   of millions of people around the world are newly fluent in the arcane
   vocabulary of samba, paso doble, cha-cha-cha and one-handed lifts
   (rather as obscure sports such as diving and curling suddenly become
   mainstream interests during the Olympics).

   Dancing, of course, is in part a proxy for sex--and in the case of
   some of the contestants, apparently a prologue to it as well. The
   sequinned costumes--said by some carpers to be much less snazzy in
   Britain than in America--are long on fake-tanned flesh and short
   everywhere else. But the programme also offers something almost
   equally primal that, in Britain at least, may help to explain its
   draw: a sense of community, of being part of a national event--a
   feeling that television used to provide routinely before viewers'
   attention was fragmented. In Britain, where social atomisation is
   perhaps more keenly felt than elsewhere, it also offers Mr Forsyth.

   He started on the stage during the second world war, tap-dancing and
   playing the accordion as "Boy Bruce, the mighty Atom", and still sings
   and tap-dances in the amateurish, have-a-go way that British audiences
   love. He has made a couple of forays to America, where his innocent
   innuendoes and music-hall style rather flopped. But on his home turf,
   Mr Forsyth and the meaningless catchphrases he has developed during
   his 50 years as a television host (sample: "Nice to see you--to see
   you, nice!"), are cherished precisely because they are throwbacks. He
   and "Strictly" captivate the millions of Britons who long for some
   things, at least, to stay the same, and whose secret idea of heaven is
   still dancing the Viennese waltz in a seaside hotel.


   A boost for renewables, but nuclear power takes centre stage


   "I THINK there'd be plenty of support round here for a new nuclear
   plant," says Colonel George Smythe, chairman of a nuclear-power
   discussion group at Dungeness in Kent. Two giant atomic power plants
   dominate the flat shingle shoreline of this blustery bit of the
   Channel coast. Although the older Dungeness A was shut down for
   decommissioning in 2006, the plants provide hundreds of jobs in an
   area without many other big employers. When Mr Smythe asked residents
   what should replace the closed power station, the most popular answer
   was a new one (although a nature reserve came a close second).

   Such enthusiasm will be welcomed by Gordon Brown. On January 10th his
   government unveiled its much-delayed new energy policy, the
   centrepiece of which was a decision to support the building of new
   nuclear-power stations.

   Energy policy in Britain is under pressure from the imminent closure
   of many coal- and nuclear-fired power stations, increasing dependence
   on foreign suppliers (as North Sea oil and gas reserves dwindle) and
   worries about climate change. For Mr Brown, nuclear power ticks all
   the right boxes. It produces little carbon dioxide, the technology is
   well-developed and the uranium fuel can be obtained from stable,
   friendly countries such as Canada or Australia. Although ministers
   refuse to say how many new plants they want, most observers reckon
   that they hope existing stations will at least be replaced. Nuclear
   power now provides about 20% of Britain's electricity, and all but one
   of the ten remaining stations will be shut by 2023.

   The pro-nuclear decision was both widely trailed and controversial.
   Ministers planned to publish the bill last year, but when an
   environmental pressure group won a court case arguing that the
   government's consultation on nuclear power had been misleading, the
   bill was shelved and the consultation re-run. Polls show a modest rise
   in public support for nuclear power in recent years, but there is
   still anxious uncertainty over where to bury the waste.

   Economics may prove even trickier than politics. Formally, there is no
   need for the government to give its blessing to new nuclear stations:
   there is no law banning companies from building them now. But nuclear
   power has a troubled history in Britain. Thanks to planning delays,
   Sizewell B, Britain's newest nuclear plant, took 12 years to build.
   The finances of nuclear stations--with their huge upfront capital
   costs--make such delays very costly, and leave plants vulnerable to
   fluctuations in power prices. In 2003 low prices meant that British
   Energy, which operates Britain's more modern reactors, had to be
   rescued with 3 billion of public money.

   Ministers are keen to avoid further bailouts, and want new nuclear
   plants to be privately financed. State help will be limited to
   reforming the lengthy licensing process, streamlining the planning
   system and levying a charge on nuclear operators to pay for
   decommissioning and waste storage. But despite encouraging noises from
   power firms such as EDF, a French company, and E.ON, a German one, not
   everyone is convinced the sums add up. Some note that assurances about
   fully private funding have been replaced by statements that nuclear
   operators will pay their "full share" of costs--hardly the same.

   Not all the news was nuclear. The bill also sets rules for building
   more natural-gas storage (as imports replace dwindling domestic
   supplies) and for developing technology to capture and sequester
   carbon emissions from fossil-fuel plants. Britain has much potential:
   natural salt caverns and depleted gas fields could store decades of
   emissions from Europe.

   There was some good news for renewable fans, too, with the reform of
   the government's main subsidy for electricity from renewable sources.
   The existing scheme awards the same payments to all technologies. As a
   result, virtually all the money has flowed into onshore wind power,
   which, as the cheapest renewable technology, offers the biggest
   profits. But onshore wind has run into political difficulties of its
   own. Windy spots tend to be beauty spots, and complaints from
   residents have made it difficult to build turbines. That is one reason
   why renewables account for just 3% of British electricity-generating
   capacity, compared with 28% in Germany and 16% in Spain. Under the new
   plan, developing more expensive technologies (such as offshore wind or
   tidal power) will attract more money.

   Some greens argue that building new nuclear stations means scaling
   back the government's renewable-energy goals. Documents leaked last
   year suggested that Mr Brown wanted to water down Britain's commitment
   to a European target that 20% of all energy used must come from
   renewables by 2020. But others are keen to extend an olive branch to
   the nuclear industry. Gordon Edge, an economist at the British Wind
   Energy Association, dismisses talk of crowding out. "Building nuclear
   power plants doesn't have to mean less money for renewables," he says.
   "After all, we have a common enemy."


   A symbolic measure will make little difference to violent crime 


   EVERY summer, in the Cambridge suburb of Romsey Town, a man emerges
   from his house dressed from head to foot in black and clutching a
   katana, a curved Japanese sword. Fortunately for his neighbours, the
   target of his ire is the weeds that have grown up in his garden. Half
   an hour later, the undergrowth reduced to stalks, he goes back inside.

   Not everyone is so harmlessly eccentric. On December 10th a man
   appeared at an Inverness court charged with attempting murder with a
   similar weapon. On the same day, to much fanfare, the Home Office said
   it would add "samurai swords" to a list of exotic-sounding proscribed
   weapons. These include butterfly knives, blowpipes and shuriken
   (throwing stars). It is already illegal to carry bladed weapons;
   adding the swords to the list will make it illegal to import or sell
   them.

   The crackdown is the latest attempt to calm worries about violent
   crime. Although such crime has fallen overall, attacks by strangers
   are as common as ever and getting nastier. A string of teenagers have
   been slain (with knives or guns) in London, Liverpool and Manchester.
   Laws have been tightened, penalties for possessing knives increased
   and teachers given powers to search their pupils.

   But the latest measure looks largely symbolic, says Richard Garside, a
   criminologist at King's College, London. Despite the gory headlines,
   sword attacks are rare. A few famous cases stand out, such as the
   killing of a Liberal Democrat councillor in 2000. Police reckon there
   have been around 80 attacks since 2003, with five people killed. In
   2006, by contrast, 210 died from gunshot wounds alone. No numbers are
   kept for knife deaths, but estimates of attacks range from 22,000 to
   60,000 a year.

   In any case, the precedents for a ban are not encouraging: gun crime
   has risen dramatically since legislation following the Dunblane
   massacre in 1996 made handguns of all kinds illegal. The sword ban is
   less swingeing, since exceptions will be made for martial-arts clubs
   and collectors. And it seems oddly specific: only "single-edged,
   curved blades" will be prohibited, leaving straight-bladed or
   double-edged weapons untouched.

   The few criminals who enjoy swordplay may simply change their
   preferences. The same websites that advertise "samurai swords" for
   sale often feature similar, but slightly smaller, "ninja
   swords"--which, with their straight blades, may be a good substitute.


   A loophole comes under political attack

   LITTLE riles the British more than unfair play. Most vexing of late is
   the realisation that ever more wealthy foreigners (and quite a few
   natives to boot) are using a crafty loophole to avoid paying tax on
   foreign income and the gains from selling assets held abroad.

   In most countries residents are taxed on their worldwide income.
   Residence is assessed by objective criteria: how long someone has
   lived in the country, for instance. But in Britain foreigners may
   claim residence and citizenship yet avoid paying tax on foreign income
   and capital gains by declaring themselves "non-domiciled", asserting a
   "long-term connection" with another country.

   The issue spilled into open political battle on October 1st, when
   George Osborne, the Tory shadow chancellor, proposed a flat tax of
   25,000 ($50,000) a year on everyone claiming the exemption. The new
   tax, he said, would fund the 3.5 billion cost of cutting the burdens
   of inheritance tax and stamp duty, a tax levied on property
   transactions. Mr Osborne's crackdown looks timely: resentment about
   the rule has been building for many months, for two reasons.

   The first is that an anachronism which once seemed to apply only to a
   few Greek shipowners or foreign oilmen is now finding wider use among
   the lawyers and bankers who keep the City of London's wheels turning.
   In 2002 about 65,000 people were non-domiciled residents. By the last
   count, in 2005, that had grown to 112,000. The Conservative Party
   thinks the figure may now be as high as 150,000.

   The second reason is that the loophole, originally meant to apply only
   to foreign income, is now used to shelter earnings that would
   otherwise be considered British. Private-equity moguls, for example,
   can arrange to hold their personal investments in British takeover
   targets through offshore trusts, thus reducing to zero what little tax
   liability other loopholes left them with.

   Mr Osborne may be optimistic in estimating that his measure would
   raise 3.5 billion (the Labour Party argues it will produce just
   650m) but perhaps not by all that much. Bill Dodwell, head of tax
   policy at Deloitte, an accounting firm, reckons the figure is not a
   million miles from the mark. Others argue for a more nuanced approach.
   Caroline Garnham, a lawyer, says Britain could learn from Switzerland,
   where foreigners negotiate how much tax they will pay in exchange for
   the right to live there.

   Still, debating the detail of a reform is easier than pressing through
   change. One reason why Gordon Brown has done nothing over the past
   decade is his reluctance to weaken the City of London by driving away
   foreign financial talent. Yet it is remarkable that the Tories--the
   historical party of business--should take the initiative. Tory
   strategists believe that the non-domicile rule is so patently unfair
   that the electorate will turn a deaf ear to Labour's attempt to
   undermine their sums.


   Energy: Using photosynthesis to capture exhaust gases from power
   plants could reduce the emissions produced by coal-fired stations

   FOR its supporters, the idea of growing single-celled algae on exhaust
   gas piped from power stations is the ultimate in recycling. For its
   detractors, it is a mere pipe dream. Whoever turns out to be right,
   though, it is an intriguing idea: instead of releasing the carbon
   dioxide produced by burning fossil fuels into the atmosphere, why not
   recapture it by photosynthesis? The result could then be turned into
   biodiesel (since many species of algae store their food reserves as
   oil), or even simply dried and fed back into the power station. Of
   course, if it were really that easy, someone would have done it
   already. But although no one has yet commercialised the technology,
   several groups are trying.

   One of them is GS CleanTech, which has developed a bioreactor based on
   a patent held by a group of scientists at the Ohio Coal Research
   Centre, at the University of Ohio. The GS CleanTech bioreactor uses a
   parabolic mirror to funnel sunlight into fibre-optic cables that carry
   the light to acrylic "glow plates" inside the reactor. These diffuse
   the light over vertical sheets of polyester that form the platform on
   which the algae grow. Eventually the polyester is unable to support
   the weight of the algae, and they fall off into a collection duct
   positioned underneath.

   GreenFuel Technologies, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, has a
   different approach. Its reactor is composed of a series of clear
   tubes, each with a second, opaque tube nested inside. This arrangement
   makes it possible to bubble the exhaust gas down through the outer
   compartment and then bubble it back up through the opaque middle. The
   bubbling gas causes turbulence and circulates the algae around the
   reactor. The constant shift between light and darkness as the algal
   cells circulate increases the amount of carbon that they fix, probably
   by promoting chemical reactions that occur naturally only at night.

   A preliminary test of GreenFuel's reactor design, which was performed
   at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's campus power plant,
   suggested that it can remove 75% of the carbon dioxide from a power
   station's exhaust. A more serious test is now being carried out by
   Arizona Public Service, that state's power utility, at its Redhawk
   plant. Another test is planned in Louisiana.

   GreenFuel claims that over the course of a year, a hectare (2.5 acres)
   of its reactors should be able to produce 30,000 litres (8,000
   American gallons) of oil, which could be used as biodiesel, and enough
   carbohydrates to be fermented into 9,000 litres of ethanol, which can
   be used as a substitute for petrol.

   There is, of course, no free lunch. As Rob Carlson of the University
   of Washington points out, if money is to be made selling products made
   from exhaust gas, then that gas goes from being waste matter to being
   a valuable resource. Far from giving it away, power companies might
   even start charging for it. That would, indeed, be a reversal of
   fortune.


   British troops look for a face-saving way out of Iraq

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                         Ready or not, they are in charge

   "I HATE Iraq. I wish we had never gone to the place," said Winston
   Churchill in 1926 when, as chancellor of the exchequer, he had to pay
   the cost of holding on to the violently rebellious territory. The
   British government, and much of the public, no doubt feels the same
   about today's military venture in Iraq, which has cost around 5
   billion ($10 billion) and the lives of more than 170 soldiers since
   2003.

   Having entered the country uninvited, the army is leaving unlamented.
   The handover ceremony in the departure lounge of Basra airport
   (Britain's last base) on December 16th, when Basra province was
   transferred to Iraqi security control, summed it up: the British are
   no longer safe in the city, and have booked their tickets out of the
   country.

   It was very different in the early days of the occupation of southern
   Iraq when British soldiers patrolled in soft berets, in contrast with
   the Americans in Baghdad. But as Iraq's violence spread southwards,
   and Basra turned into an urban shooting gallery, British troops also
   had to don their helmets and drive in armoured vehicles.

   Their battle now is to try to avoid the perception of defeat.
   Commanders claim that security has improved enough in Basra for Iraqi
   forces to take charge. Attacks against British forces have declined,
   but that is largely because of a shortage of targets after British
   troops withdrew from the city centre to the airport in September. A
   six-month ceasefire declared by Muqtada al-Sadr, the powerful radical
   cleric, has helped to reduce violence.

   For Iraqis, though, Basra remains a violent place, with scores of
   people killed every month. Major-General Jalil Khalaf, the police
   chief, complained of being left in a sea of troubles. Rival Shia
   militias with murky links to Iran compete violently for control and
   terrorise the population--particularly women deemed immodest, barbers
   and those selling alcohol.

   For the moment there are no open battles. That is good enough for
   Britain to accelerate its withdrawal, drawing the number of troops
   down from 4,500 to 2,500 next spring. A recent report from MPs asked
   whether such a small contingent could do anything more than defend
   itself. All British troops, except special forces and aircraft
   supporting the Americans, will probably be out of Iraq by the end of
   2008.

   The British army's ability to wage irregular warfare has been found
   wanting, despite the folk memory of centuries of colonial policing and
   decades in Northern Ireland. It would be a mistake, some generals say,
   for commanders to believe the convenient fiction of their success and
   assume they have nothing to learn.

   Confronted with rising violence, the Americans adopted a new
   counter-insurgency doctrine and reinforced their forces. American
   units now deploy for 15 months, compared with six months for the
   British. Conditions in Basra and Baghdad are different, say British
   officials. But the more important difference may be the mindsets in
   London and Washington; the British accepted that events were beyond
   their control, whereas the Americans acted to regain the initiative.

   The Pentagon is worried about the prospect of a vacuum in southern
   Iraq, through which its supply convoys from Kuwait must pass. However,
   the gap between the allies may narrow as America's "surge" in Iraq
   ebbs away. American commanders may also declare victory and withdraw,
   at least from some outlying provinces.

   Britain's departure is hardly graceful, but it would come as little
   surprise to Churchill. It was he, after all, who said that staying in
   Iraq was like "living on an ungrateful volcano".


   The gap between high-flown rhetoric and painful reality on the cancer
   ward


   "IF YOU were diagnosed with kidney cancer tomorrow, after you had
   stopped crying the first thing you'd do is type `kidney cancer' into
   Google," says Nick James, an oncologist who specialises in the
   disease. "The first thing you'd discover on your computer is that
   there are new drugs that could help. The second thing is that the NHS
   won't pay for them."

   Rationing in the National Health Service is nothing new, but those
   making the hard choices used to do so behind the scenes. The internet
   has now made clear what they are passing up, and at an awkward time. A
   tidal wave of costly new drugs is about to break: around 40 will be
   licensed to treat just cancer in the next few years, says Karol
   Sikora, a cancer specialist at Imperial College London. The National
   Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE), which decides
   whether treatments are sufficiently cost-effective for the NHS, will,
   he thinks, reject most or all of them.

   Patients can understand that some drugs cost too much for the taxpayer
   to finance. What they cannot understand is being discouraged from
   paying for those drugs themselves. Yet this is becoming commonplace.
   The Department of Health has decided that a patient who pays for part
   of his treatment thereby chooses to become a private patient for all
   of it. It quotes one of the NHS's founding principles--that care is
   "free at the point of use"--to support a ban on patients topping up
   their treatment, which would mean cash changing hands.

   Some patients are refusing to take no for an answer. Halliwells, a
   Manchester law firm, is representing Colette Mills and Debbie Hirst,
   two cancer patients who are demanding the right to remain NHS patients
   while buying better medicine than the NHS provides. Both want to take
   Avastin, an expensive new anti-cancer drug that is not sanctioned by
   NICE, as well as their NHS chemotherapy. But they have not been
   allowed to pay the 4,000-a-month marginal cost of doing so. Paying
   privately for all their treatment would cost each around 10,000 a
   month.

   Savvy patients will seek out consultants willing to co-operate in
   sidestepping the ban on co-payments. One specialist, who does not want
   to be named for fear of causing trouble for his hospital's managers,
   describes how he does it. If he thinks a patient would benefit from a
   drug the NHS will not provide and the patient wants to pay, he gets a
   colleague to write a private prescription for it. While he continues
   to administer the NHS-approved treatment, the extra drug is dispensed
   by a private company and administered at home.

   Even if Ms Mills and Ms Hirst do not succeed, there will be other
   challenges. Pressure will also come from plans in the pipeline to
   allow EU citizens to seek treatment abroad, paid for by their own
   country's health-care system. These could allow patients to receive
   the full treatment they desire in a foreign hospital and be reimbursed
   by the NHS for that portion it would have provided. One private health
   insurer, Western Provident Association, is so confident that topping
   up NHS cancer care will become commonplace that it has launched a
   policy covering cancer drugs the NHS will not pay for.

   Some say that, by allowing wealth to buy health, patient top-ups
   threaten the founding principles of the NHS. That is overblown: a
   report published in 2007 by Doctors for Reform, a pressure group,
   detailed how co-payment is already commonplace, with patients paying
   or part-paying for prescriptions, hearing aids and spectacles, or to
   avoid lengthy waits for consultations or scans, among other things.
   More substantive is the charge that co-payment threatens the
   cross-subsidies inherent in a taxpayer-funded service: if the working
   well know that, should the worst happen, they can top up their NHS
   care, they will be less willing to pay high taxes to fund the best
   care for everyone.

   The controversy is bubbling up at an awkward time for the prime
   minister, Gordon Brown. He is attempting to regain political momentum
   by painting a compelling picture of the future of the NHS. A new
   constitution will set out patients' rights and responsibilities--but
   talk of responsibilities (exercising, giving up smoking and the like)
   will flop if patients think their rights are at the whim of
   health-care managers. And a pledge by Mr Brown on January 7th that new
   screening programmes will mean earlier detection of illnesses sits
   oddly alongside denying treatment for illnesses already diagnosed.


   Transport: The untold story of a failed attempt to introduce electric
   buses in London a century ago offers a cautionary technological tale

   ON MONDAY July 15th 1907 an unusual bus picked up its first passengers
   at London's Victoria Station before gliding smoothly off to Liverpool
   Street. It was the beginning of what was then the world's biggest
   trial of battery-powered buses. The London Electrobus Company had high
   hopes that this quiet and fume-free form of transport would replace
   the horse. At its peak, the firm had a fleet of 20 buses. But despite
   being popular with passengers the service collapsed in 1909. The
   history books imply that the collapse was caused by technical
   drawbacks and a price war. It was not. The untold story is that the
   collapse was caused by systematic fraud that set back the cause of
   battery buses by a hundred years.

                                                           Hulton Archive

                               Hulton Archive

                           Can it be a motor bus?

   Indeed, the London electrobus trial remained the largest for the rest
   of the 20th century. Only recently has American interest in keeping
   city air clean encouraged trials on anything approaching the same
   scale. For the past 15 years Chattanooga has had a dozen battery
   buses. Today the world's biggest fleet, excluding minibuses, is in
   Santa Barbara, California. The city has 20 buses and is buying five
   more.

   The replacement of horses by internal-combustion engines may now look
   to have been inevitable, but it certainly did not seem so at the time.
   At the beginning of 1906 there were only 230 motor buses in London.
   They were widely reviled for their evil smells and noise. At any one
   time a quarter of them were off the road for repairs. In 1907 The
   Economist predicted "the triumph of the horse". The future of
   public-transport technology was up for grabs.

   The paradox at the heart of the electrobus story is that the
   electrobuses themselves were well engineered and well managed. All
   battery buses have a limited range because of the weight of their
   batteries. The electrobus needed 1.5 tonnes of lead-acid batteries to
   carry its 34 passengers. It could travel 60km (38 miles) on one
   charge. So at lunchtime the buses went to a garage in Victoria and
   drove up a ramp. The batteries, slung under the electrobus, were
   lowered onto a trolley and replaced with fresh ones. It all took three
   minutes. "It just goes to show there's nothing new under the sun,"
   says Mark Hairr, of the Advanced Transportation Technology Institute.
   "That's almost exactly what we do here in Chattanooga. And we knew
   nothing about this."

   In April 1906 the London Electrobus Company floated on the
   stockmarket. It wanted 300,000 to put 300 buses on the streets of the
   capital. On the first day the flotation raised 120,000 and the share
   offer was on course to be fully subscribed. But the next day some
   awkward questions surfaced. The firm was buying rights to a patent for
   20,000 (7.5m, or $15m, in today's money) from the Baron de Martigny.
   But the patent was old and had nothing to do with battery buses. It
   was a scam. Investors asked for their money back, and the firm had to
   return 80,000. The investors would have been even less impressed had
   they known the true identity of the "Baron", who was a Canadian
   music-hall artist.

   Martigny was only the front man. The mastermind behind this and a
   clutch of subsequent scams was Edward Lehwess, a German lawyer and
   serial con-artist with a taste for fast cars and expensive champagne.
   After this initial fiasco the London Electrobus Company struggled to
   raise money. But Lehwess had set up a network of front companies to
   siphon off its funds. Chief among these was the Electric Vehicle
   Company of West Norwood, which built the buses.

   The London Electrobus Company paid the Electric Vehicle Company over
   31,000 in advance for 50 buses. Only 20 were ever delivered. The
   buses were hugely overpriced. Eventually the London Electrobus Company
   went into liquidation. Even then the scams continued. Lehwess bought
   eight buses for 800 from the liquidators and sold them to Brighton
   for 3,500--a mark-up of 340%--where they ran for another six years.
   At the time, the life of a motor bus was measured in months.

   Whether the fraud was truly a tipping point for electric vehicles is,
   of course, impossible to say. But it is a commonplace of
   innovation--from railway gauges to semiconductors to software--that
   the "best" technology is not always the most successful. Once an
   industry standard has been established, it is hard to displace. If
   Lehwess and Martigny had not pulled their scam when they did, modern
   cities might be an awful lot cleaner.


   Equality for low-paid women means some will lose their jobs

   IT IS not just teachers' pay that is putting pressure on school
   budgets as government largesse runs out. An attempted raid on school
   reserves in the name of sexual equality could make things worse. For
   years councils have paid cleaners, dinner ladies and teaching
   assistants less than men for jobs that are now regarded as requiring
   similar skills. That will no longer be possible.

   The saga started in 1997, when local councils thrashed out an
   agreement with unions to review wages and start paying workers in
   female-dominated jobs as much as those in male-dominated ones. (School
   cleaners, for example, mostly women, have long earned less than street
   cleaners, who are mostly men.) The process was supposed to have been
   finished by mid-2007, but fewer than half of all councils had
   completed even their reviews by the year's end.

   Some 700,000 local-government workers have probably been treated
   unfairly. Closing the gap in wages and reaching some agreement about
   the six years of back pay to which women may be entitled will cost
   councils at least 3 billion, says the Local Government Association.
   The bill could be even higher if it proves impossible to negotiate
   union-wide deals. Large numbers of women might then go to employment
   tribunals: 50,000 cases are waiting to be heard.

   The battle has pitched union sisters against their brothers. Some of
   the latter will see their pay reduced to match that of women doing
   comparable jobs. One group of women has already taken their union to a
   tribunal, alleging that a desire to protect men's jobs and pay led it
   to pull its punches in talks with councils. They lost, but no-win,
   no-fee lawyers are touting for more such business.

   Other natural alliances have also frayed. On January 14th the Equality
   and Human Rights Commission withdrew its support for another set of
   women who want the council they work for to equalise pay right away,
   rather than protecting men's pay and closing the gap gradually.
   Further support for their case would be "throwing petrol on this legal
   forest fire", says the commission's boss, Trevor Phillips.

   Whitehall has washed its hands of the problem. It has allowed councils
   to borrow more than normal to help them pay, although nowhere near
   enough to cover the bill. So, noting that schools employ around 30% of
   the staff in line for compensation, councils are eyeing schools'
   reserves covetously. Head teachers are outraged. Most reserves are
   earmarked for refurbishments, they say, and it was councils, not
   schools, that set the discriminatory pay rates.

   With teachers' pay protected by national agreements and a legal
   requirement to put a trained teacher in front of every class, other
   staff will have to bear the brunt of school funding cuts. Some
   low-paid women may get their compensation along with their redundancy
   notices. And if the number of teaching assistants plummets, so too
   will any hope for education that is truly "personalised" to suit each
   child.


   New plans for detaining suspects have been rushed out. Why the hurry?

   "A MORE comprehensively consensual approach than we have ever taken
   before" was promised six months ago, when the government announced its
   fifth counter-terrorism bill in eight years. Previous bills had been
   piloted through Parliament at top speed, dividing MPs and in some
   cases leading to legislation that breached human-rights laws. This
   time a soothing consultation period and cross-party co-operation would
   prevent squabbling and mistakes, ministers pledged.

   The consensus approach now seems to be on the rocks. On December 6th
   the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, called an emergency press conference
   to announce plans to hold suspected terrorists for longer before
   charging them, a power long coveted by the government and opposed by
   other parties. Opposition MPs, who say they were shown the detailed
   plans no earlier than journalists were, accused the government of
   "pig-headed stubbornness". On the contrary, Ms Smith retorted, it is
   they who have refused to compromise.

   Sensing widespread hostility to a permanent increase in the current
   28-day limit, the government now proposes to give the home secretary
   the power to increase it temporarily, subject to various safeguards.
   The new limit would be 42 days: it could be invoked for just two
   months and only with the approval of police, prosecutors and
   Parliament. A judge would also have to agree to each suspect's
   continued detention each week. The temporary nature of the extension
   makes it similar to the emergency powers already available under the
   Civil Contingencies Act 2004, Ms Smith claims.

   The new plan has a whiff of hasty drafting about it. One odd feature
   is that even if Parliament voted against a 42-day extension, it would
   remain in place for a month. Given that a suspect would probably have
   been held for a couple of weeks before the extension was invoked, he
   could end up being detained for a full 42 days despite Parliament's
   opposition.

   Another worry is that MPs would not be permitted to hear evidence that
   could prejudice a subsequent trial, so their vote would in effect be
   blind. Liberty, a civil-rights outfit, points out too that whereas
   existing emergency powers can be struck down by a court if they are
   applied illegally, the proposed new powers would be "primary
   legislation" and therefore immune to judicial review. Reports by the
   parliamentary Home Affairs and Human Rights committees on December
   13th and 14th found no reason to go beyond 28 days.

   The puzzle is why the government has provoked this fight now. The
   doughty Ms Smith has plenty on her plate already, including a tussle
   with the police over a miserly pay settlement that has provoked
   demands from some officers for the right to strike. The prime
   minister, Gordon Brown, himself buffeted by bad news lately, may have
   his own reasons for moving early on the matter (see [3]Bagehot). But
   there may be even shorter-term reasons. Ms Smith was expected to
   announce her plans after the Home Affairs Committee had made its
   recommendations; by pre-empting its report she stole a little of the
   initiative and perhaps hoped to bounce MPs into backing a version of
   her plan.

   If the proposals make it into the counter-terrorism bill, which is
   expected early next year, Mr Brown will need to quash dissent in his
   own ranks if it is to pass. An attempt by his predecessor to extend
   the limit to 90 days earned Tony Blair one of his two parliamentary
   defeats. On December 11th Frank Dobson, a normally loyal Labour MP,
   held a meeting with rebellious colleagues to discuss mounting an
   insurrection. Only a dozen turned up, but plotters claim that resolve
   elsewhere is firmer than expected. Optimists note that Ms Smith's
   announcement of the proposals was made in a press conference rather
   than in the House of Commons, which may mean that they are not yet set
   in stone. They must hope to face her down before her plan becomes part
   of a bill; if they fail, a bigger showdown looms.


   What the funding scandal really tells us about Britain, its Jews and
   immigrants in general



   DAVID ABRAHAMS; Jon Mendelsohn; Lord Levy (also known as "Lord
   Cashpoint"). Notice anything funny about those names, and some of the
   others at the heart of the previous and present furores over political
   funding? Maybe--and ideally--you don't. But some people have spotted a
   theme. A front page in theDaily Telegraph featured a photograph of Mr
   Abrahams--who donated more than 660,000 ($1.4m) to the Labour Party
   using illegitimate intermediaries--shaking hands with the Israeli
   ambassador. The nudge-nudge headline was "Hunt for the `real donor'".
   An intrepid columnist in the Independent dared, as she put it, to
   incur "the wrath of Moses" by questioning the involvement of the
   "shape-shifter" Mr Abrahams and the others with a pro-Israel lobbying
   group.

   Britain's discomforted Jewish community has definitely noticed. "A
   second `Jewish scandal'" was the nervous headline in last week's
   Jewish Chronicle. But the interesting thing about the Jewish
   connection to these episodes is probably not the conspiracy imagined
   in a few fevered gentile minds. It is rather the insight they may
   offer into a different sort of anxiety, another kind of suspected
   conspiracy--one which may also exist more in imagination than in fact,
   but is important nonetheless.

   Macher or nebekh?

   Motive is often difficult to fathom. Acts that look virtuous crumble
   under scrutiny; charity comes to look like moral self-aggrandisement
   or self-interest. In the case of Mr Abrahams's donations, there have
   been unsubstantiated hints that he was hoping for a more tangible
   payback, such as a peerage or favouritism for his businesses. Even he
   may not know precisely why he gave so much and in the manner that he
   did.

   But a little digging in his native north-east suggests that the
   nudge-nudge view of him (it is worse online) is wide of the mark. Mr
   Abrahams was apparently known as "Podge" at school and, later, as
   "Daft David" in the town-hall circles that he tried unsuccessfully to
   penetrate. He was the only child of a respected father; when the
   father died, Mr Abrahams was reluctant to release the body for burial.
   Though not all of his dealings seem to have been completely straight,
   he is seen less as a Machiavel than as a fantasist: in Yiddish
   parlance, less a macher (a big-shot) than a nebekh (someone to be
   pitied). Still, odd though he may be, in his need to be seen, and see
   himself, in the company of the powerful, he seems to epitomise a
   common syndrome: common among Jewish men of his generation and older,
   and among immigrants to Britain in general.

   "It appears", remarks one observer of Anglo-Jewry, "that the ambition
   of the well-to-do and rising immigrant community soars after some kind
   of official dignity." That was written in 1900, in the middle of the
   great wave of immigration responsible for most of Britain's current
   Jewish population. Like Mr Abrahams, who gives money to universities
   but did not go to one himself, most Jews in Britain then had little
   chance to distinguish themselves through their careers or in high
   office. Instead, many sought--like Mr Abrahams's father, once Lord
   Mayor of Newcastle--to do so in local politics or societies. The same
   urge for recognition, for an outward show of arrival and belonging,
   still grips some Jews, and many other newcomers, today.

   Why? A century ago anti-Semitism was widespread: Britain's first
   immigration laws were introduced in 1905 to slow the influx of
   impoverished Jews (the folk memory of that poverty helps to explain
   many Jews' philanthropic streak). But the view of modern Britain as
   rampantly anti-Semitic, which sometimes features in American
   narratives of European decline, and in the scaremongering of some
   British-Jewish columnists, is wildly overblown. Anti-Semitism still
   exists: in the refectories of certain public schools, on the far
   right, among some Muslims, and in the tropes and Fagin allusions for
   which some journalists lazily reach. But it can also be found among
   Montana survivalists, in Connecticut country clubs and in the Nation
   of Islam.

   The truth is that Britain today is one of the best places to be
   Jewish, ever. Jews no longer need to camouflage themselves against
   prejudice; nor do they bump up against a "glass ceiling". Mr Abrahams,
   like Lord Levy during the dnouement of "cash-for-honours", is seen by
   some as a sort of Trollopean "Court Jew", thrown to the wolves when
   circumstances demanded. But the key fact is that there are, and have
   long been, Jews in the establishment's upper reaches ("more old
   Estonians than old Etonians", Macmillan jibed of Margaret Thatcher's
   cabinet).

   The real cause of the syndrome is subtler than that. It is a vague but
   powerful sense, which many immigrant antennae pick up, that there is
   somewhere an inner sanctum of Britishness, an elusive top table, to
   which, by reason of birth and class, the newcomer is not invited,
   ostensibly welcomed though he may be. Finding a way to it, through
   lavish acts of patriotism or patronage, becomes for some a mission
   more compelling than money. Three or four generations in, most Jews
   have outgrown those neuroses; but some haven't, and other, newer
   ethnic groups, such as some Anglo-Indians, have acquired them.

   The funding row rumbles on, as politicians confess fresh accounting
   indiscretions. More may emerge about Mr Abrahams's role. So far the
   main lessons are that the rules on donations need to be overhauled, as
   Gordon Brown now promises--and that, whatever they are, they should be
   obeyed. If the backgrounds of some of those involved suggest a further
   conclusion, it does not concern either anti-Semitism or nefarious
   lobbying. It has to do with the mixed feelings of marginality and
   ambition immigrants to Britain experience. Those feelings are visible
   in another, more revealing photo that has surfaced of a young Mr
   Abrahams: dressed to the nines, with his parents and his granny, for a
   garden party at Buckingham Palace.


   Unpaid subsidies provoke calls for blood

   ONE of Labour's successes in office has been its management of
   Britain's economy. But when it comes to more prosaic administrative
   matters, its record is muckier. A string of procurement disasters,
   diligently catalogued by spending watchdogs and parliamentary
   committees, give the impression of chronic incompetence in project
   management. More evidence came on March 29th, when a committee of MPs
   issued a scathing report on the Rural Payments Agency (RPA), which is
   meant to distribute 1.5 billion of European Common Agricultural
   Policy (CAP) subsidies to British farmers.

   The mess was some time in the making. In 2003 the European Commission
   reformed the CAP, replacing production subsidies with a single payment
   based on farm size, leaving the RPA in need of a new payment system.
   Officials at the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs
   (DEFRA), decided to merge the new system with an existing programme of
   cost-cutting, begun in 2001 and carried out with the help of
   Accenture, a consultancy.

   Chaos followed. The government missed its own payment deadline of
   December 2005, as well as a later commitment to pay 96% of the
   outstanding claims by March 2006. As recently as last December, around
   500 farmers were still waiting for their money. Suddenly and
   unexpectedly deprived of a large chunk of their income, many struggled
   to cope. "This saga has cost farmers 20m of their own money, and
   untold stress," says Peter Kendall, head of the National Farmers'
   Union.

   The catalogue of failures will be familiar to anyone who has followed
   the dolorous saga of British government procurement. Contracts were
   changed after being signed, communication between DEFRA, the RPA and
   Accenture was poor, systems were overly complicated and oversight was
   lax. More unusual is the fact that the MPs are so very cross. "If
   accountability is to mean anything at all," they say rather pompously,
   "then all those responsible for the RPA failure should consider their
   positions." One scalp has already been claimed: Johnston McNeill, the
   RPA's boss, was forced out in March 2006. Others, however, have so far
   escaped punishment. Margaret Beckett, in charge of DEFRA at the time,
   is now the foreign secretary; Sir Brian Bender, DEFRA's most senior
   civil servant, has moved over to the Department for Trade and
   Industry.

   This fuss may seem overdone given the fact that farming now makes up
   only around 1% of Britain's economy. But the rest of the country may
   come to rue DEFRA's incompetence. The EU seems likely to fine Britain
   for its late payments, and the Treasury has set aside 300m to cover
   it.


                                                                      EPA

                                    EPA

   The real test for Ukraine's warring parties will come after this
   weekend's election


   THE stage on Independence Square is set, the props are out, the
   players are ready for the general election on September 30th. There
   are blue tents for the Party of the Regions, led by the prime
   minister, Viktor Yanukovich; orange ones for Our Ukraine, the party of
   his rival, President Viktor Yushchenko; and white tents with red
   hearts for the fiery Yulia Tymoshenko, Mr Yushchenko's first prime
   minister.

   Ukrainians have seen this show several times. This is the second
   parliamentary election since the orange revolution of 2004. The past
   three years have seen lots of side-swapping, corruption and betrayal.
   Much of the president's power has been transferred to parliament. In
   April Mr Yushchenko called a fresh parliamentary election, leaving the
   country largely ungoverned for almost six months.

   The hope is that Ukraine's political system will now be rebooted. Yet
   the results may be similar to the 2006 parliamentary election, when
   the big winner was the Party of the Regions, followed by the
   Tymoshenko block and trailed by Our Ukraine. The real question is not
   over seats: it is whether the political elite can create a functioning
   governing body. And that is also to ask if Ukraine, with no tradition
   of statehood, can be a successful country.

   From this perspective, the importance of this election goes far beyond
   Ukraine. If the biggest ex-Soviet country after Russia can pull itself
   out of this crisis, it will be an example for others, including
   Moldova and Belarus.

   In the 2004 presidential election the picture seemed clear. The orange
   forces, led by Ms Tymoshenko and Mr Yushchenko, defeated the
   vote-rigging Mr Yanukovich, who was backed by Moscow. Ukraine was
   turned to the West. Since then the picture has become blurred.
   Ideological divides, at least between the two Viktors, seem less
   important and the fight for power and money more so.

   As president, Mr Yushchenko failed to break the nexus between politics
   and business and turned a blind eye to the murky brokering of Russian
   gas to Ukraine. The orange revolution did not create the institutions
   needed for a functioning state. Then Mr Yanukovich, the villain in
   2004, staged a dramatic comeback. Unlike Mr Yushchenko, he never
   promised to cut links with business tycoons. He is backed by Rinat
   Akhmetov, an MP and the country's richest man. "We have a different
   philosophy: we want to draw business into the running of the country.
   Akhmetov and Yanukovich complement each other," says Yuriy
   Miroshnychenko, a lawyer with the Party of the Regions.

   Mr Yanukovich has also undergone a makeover by American consultants
   and no longer takes instructions from Moscow. His main message is of
   stability and growth. Demanding official status for the Russian
   language and opposition to NATO membership are secondary. Ms
   Tymoshenko calls for a revolutionary breakthrough and an
   anti-corruption crusade. That inspires awe in her supporters and
   apprehension among some tycoons. All three parties want Ukraine to get
   into the European Union, but the EU offers little encouragement.

   None of the parties will get an overall majority, so a coalition will
   be necessary. One possibility is the reunion of Ms Tymoshenko and Mr
   Yushchenko. Another is a coalition between the Party of the Regions
   and Our Ukraine. Mr Yanukovich and Mr Akhmetov have talked to Mr
   Yushchenko, who has not ruled out a coalition with his opponents. Now
   negotiations are intensifying.

   The test of this election will be the ability of the parties to do a
   post-election deal. Oles Doniy, a supporter of Our Ukraine who fought
   for independence in the early 1990s, says that "from the point of view
   of the Ukrainian state, victory by Our Ukraine is not enough. The most
   important thing is the functioning of the state." For the election to
   be judged a success, he argues, the parties must not cheat; whoever
   loses must recognise the victory of the others; and whoever wins must
   allow the losers to function as a proper opposition.

   Each of the three parties has accused its opponents of rigging the
   votes, even before they are cast. None of the parties is ready to
   admit defeat. If the Party of the Regions wins the most seats but is
   excluded from government, Mr Yanukovich may bring people on to the
   streets; or simply boycott parliament.

   If the economy keeps growing fast, Ukrainians can afford to take
   little interest. But with the world economy faltering, the next few
   years could be tougher. A stalemate that blocks further reform could
   then lose all the gains from 2004.


   Let them burn snake oil 



   IN EUROPE, policy packages are like patent remedies: if they promise
   to cure one or two ills, they might be worth a try; if a dozen,
   suspect quackery. On January 23rd the European Commission is to unveil
   a comprehensive energy policy that promises to curb climate change,
   increase energy security, shield economies from volatile fuel prices
   and foster new industries in which Europe will lead the world. The
   mandate for this monster comes from national leaders, who set
   themselves a string of ambitious but sketchy energy goals at a summit
   last March, the European Union's first after growing to 27 members.
   Beforehand, some people wondered how such a diverse group would agree
   about something as tricky as an energy policy. In the event, agreement
   came fast. The reason for that is now clear: like the finest
   snake-oil, the new policy promises something for everyone.

   For countries worried about global warming, there is a target to
   reduce EU greenhouse-gas emissions by at least a fifth of their 1990
   level before 2020. For countries less fussed about climate change
   (some ex-communist newcomers), the policy stresses independence from
   scary suppliers such as Russia, and asks the rich countries of old
   Europe to accept the lion's share of greenhouse-gas curbs.

   Countries with lots of coal will doubtless be gratified by talk of
   clean coal plants, and of carbon capture and storage. Farmers get a
   potentially lucrative pledge that the EU will use biofuels for a tenth
   of its transport needs, as long as they are eco-friendly (fierce rows
   continue about how to judge that). For Europeans opposed to nuclear
   energy (the biggest source of low-carbon energy in the EU), the
   portmanteau places a huge bet on technologies such as wind and wave
   power, setting a target to triple Europe's overall use of renewable
   energies by 2020.

   Countries determined to subsidise expensive forms of greenery (cloudy
   Germany loves solar panels, for some reason) will be allowed to carry
   on. This is sold as a punt on EU innovation, keeping a mix of
   technologies alive while waiting to see which will sell. The model is
   Denmark, which subsidised wind turbines for years and now makes a mint
   exporting them--never mind that wind power itself has to be
   subsidised.

   For fans of market mechanisms, an existing European scheme for trading
   carbon-emissions quotas will be tightened up and a separate trading
   scheme created to set up a market in renewable power certificates
   among EU members. That would allow Britain--a crowded and expensive
   island with strong planning laws--to pay for new wind farms in
   Romania, say. With traded certificates, the power generated by
   Transylvanian windmills would be credited to Britain's renewables
   account, while Romania would get cash and clean electricity.
   Free-traders, in principle, ought to be pleased. Renewables such as
   windmills promote trade and market integration by prodding governments
   to link up national grids, says Peter Brun of the Danish wind-energy
   firm, Vestas. Otherwise, on blustery days you risk swamping your own
   grid, and on calm days going short.

   European officials predict that their policy will redistribute wealth
   to poor neighbours. These may include non-Europeans, as long as
   renewable energy produced by them is imported back to Europe. Thus
   Italy could build solar arrays in north Africa, as long as it laid
   undersea cables to bring back the electricity.

   Europe has "so much to gain", enthuses a Eurocrat: energy security,
   jobs, technological gains, you name it. There will be new industries
   "to replace older industries that will increasingly have trouble
   surviving in a carbon-constrained environment".

   But that is where the clashes start. The French president, Nicolas
   Sarkozy, complains that if EU policies drive heavy polluters to
   countries with laxer carbon regimes, that would be "neither efficient,
   nor fair, nor economically sustainable". To France, it is
   "indispensable" to fight back with import tariffs on goods from
   countries that resist binding curbs on greenhouse emissions (trade
   war, anyone?).

   One minister says it is "stupid" to pin such high hopes on renewable
   energies, because boosting them is not the same thing as cutting
   carbon emissions. If Europeans want to have global impact, he says,
   they should invest heavily in clean coal technology. "There is no way
   you can sort out China with wind power."

   Energy = much confusion, squared

   By far the loudest grumbling, though, is being prompted by specific
   targets that tell each government how big a slice of their energy mix
   must be renewable by 2020. Countries with feeble records on renewable
   energy (such as Britain) will be required to make astonishing leaps:
   in Britain, renewables are supposed to rise sevenfold, from less than
   2% of the energy mix to around 14%. Class swots on renewable energy
   are just as cross, because past efforts have been ignored in setting
   new targets. Sweden, which currently gets about 40% of its energy from
   hydro power and so on, will be asked to find more than half its energy
   from renewables, pushing it into unknown territory at unknown cost.

   For Connie Hedegaard, the Danish climate and energy minister, the
   commission's refusal to acknowledge past efforts is bad politics.
   Europe "should show that sometimes being a front-runner is
   worthwhile". Looking ahead, countries that miss targets should also
   visibly "pay in some way or other". After all, one of Europe's main
   problems, she argues, is that pledges are not kept, and policies are
   never implemented properly.

   That, of course, is the problem with issuing so many pledges. The
   energy package pursues objectives that range, depending on your point
   of view, from the laudable and visionary to the quixotic and crazily
   expensive. The sheer length of the wish-list helped secure a deal last
   spring. But the multiple goals are a muddle. If Europe wants to show
   the world it is serious about climate change, its leaders need to
   agree which objectives really matter. If not, their energy policy may
   be beyond any remedy.


   The euro area is not immune to the ills that afflict America and
   Britain




   EARLY in the new year of 2001, Lucas Papademos attended his first
   meeting of the European Central Bank's (ECB) rate-setting council. Mr
   Papademos was there to represent Greece, which had just joined the
   single currency. A day before the meeting, the Federal Reserve had
   lowered its key interest rate by half a percentage point, the first of
   a string of cuts aimed at staving off recession. The ECB declined to
   follow the Fed's lead, deciding to keep its benchmark rate unchanged.

   Seven years on, the ECB enters the new year in an eerily similar
   position. On January 10th its policy meeting will welcome central-bank
   governors from two new members, Cyprus and Malta, which both adopted
   the euro on New Year's Day. Now, as then, inflation of close to 3% is
   the bank's main worry, since it remains fairly upbeat about GDP
   growth. The ECB's economists expect the euro area to grow by 1.5-2.5%
   this year--broadly in line with its potential, in other words, albeit
   with downside risks. Similarly, the bank expected "continuing robust,
   albeit slightly lower growth rates" at the start of 2001, despite
   worries about America's economy.

   The first policy summit of 2008 is very likely to end with a decision
   to keep rates on hold, just as the January 2001 meeting did. Indeed
   the ECB is more minded to lift rates than cut them, judging from
   comments made by Jean-Claude Trichet, its president, following the
   bank's last meeting on December 6th. But if events keep playing out
   just as they did seven years ago, the ECB will be forced into lowering
   rates later this year.

   Much depends on the economy's response to malfunctioning credit
   markets and the gathering economic gloom in America. An optimist would
   argue that the euro zone will prove resilient, because it does not
   have America's legacy of struggling subprime borrowers, its
   current-account deficit or its housing bubble.

   A closer look prompts a less sanguine assessment. Europe has its own
   property hotspots. House-price gains in Spain and Ireland have been
   far greater than in America over the past decade. Both markets are now
   cooling. Even if Ireland's economy is too small to be a big part of
   the ECB's reckoning, Spain does have enough clout to alter the course
   of the euro area. Thomas Meyer at Deutsche Bank reckons that in the
   past five years, Spain accounted for more than one-third of the growth
   in consumer spending, more than half of the increase in investment and
   nearly two-thirds of the job gains of the euro area's big four
   economies.

   The good times may be ending. Spain's boom has been built on a ready
   supply of loans. But the credit squeeze means borrowed funds are now
   harder to come by, which leaves its economy vulnerable. Cooling
   housing markets in France and in Italy are likely to hurt those
   economies too.

   The euro zone also has financial imbalances to contend with. True, its
   current account has been broadly balanced, in contrast with America's
   large and persistent deficits. But that is mostly because Germany's
   current-account surplus, equivalent to 6% of GDP last year according
   to the OECD, has acted as a huge counterweight to deficits elsewhere.

   The high level of saving by German firms contributes to this handsome
   surplus and masks a worrying fault line running through the euro area.
   Outside Germany, companies are heavily dependent on borrowing to
   finance their capital spending, which makes the outlook for investment
   very sensitive to conditions in credit markets. David Owen at Dresdner
   Kleinwort reckons that if Germany is excluded, the corporate sector's
   financing gap (the difference between income and spending) was almost
   6% of GDP last year. That is a bigger funding shortfall than in 2000,
   on the eve of a savage retrenchment by firms that hurt jobs as well as
   investment (see chart).

   Companies' reliance on borrowing is all the more worrying since banks
   play a far bigger role as suppliers of capital in Europe than in
   America. The banks' troubles have not yet crippled the supply of loans
   to companies. Indeed, as Mr Trichet pointed out last month, such
   borrowing rose by 13.9% in the year to October, a rate that "does not
   suggest that we are experiencing a credit crunch". That could be
   premature. Mr Owen thinks the surge in borrowing may reflect firms
   taking up pre-arranged credit lines while they can.

   The euro area may shrug off these ills, particularly if Germany powers
   ahead and consumer spending picks up. Germany's export machine has
   been fuelled by vigorous demand in emerging economies. Moreover, its
   companies can readily finance capital spending from profits. Even so,
   Mr Meyer at Deutsche Bank reckons that the export performance of the
   past two years is "unrepeatable". A strong euro and sluggish growth
   (or worse) in Britain and America, the euro area's two biggest
   markets, mean exports are a less reliable source of demand.

   The lesson of 2001 is that when the outlook for the economy appears
   bad enough, the ECB will cut interest rates, even if inflation is
   stubbornly high. Already, two other inflation-targeting central
   banks--in Britain and Canada--have followed the Fed's lead. If the
   banking crisis persists, the ECB may have to do likewise.


   The Polish government flails, creaks and sheds ministers


   POLAND'S fractious, pig-headed government has survived for nearly 18
   months, against the expectations of most commentators. Lech and
   Jaroslaw Kaczynski, the identical twins who are respectively president
   and prime minister, may be disastrous in foreign affairs, but at home
   life rumbles on fine. Poland took in a record $14.7 billion in foreign
   investment last year, and the economy is growing at almost 6% a year.

   Money is flowing in from Brussels, thanks to Grazyna Gesicka, the
   diligent regional-affairs minister. The justice system, under a zealot
   named Zbigniew Ziobro, at least sounds serious about catching the
   biggest crooks. Communist-era secret-police files--long a source of
   suspicion and scandal in Poland--are to be opened. The old military
   intelligence service, the WSI, has been closed down, and a dossier
   will be published soon showing the reach of its sinister tentacles in
   business, media and officialdom. The upper reaches of the Kaczynskis'
   Law and Justice party exude a puritanical rectitude. Its two small
   coalition partners, once known for their outlandish populism, have
   been tamed by power.

   In the past two weeks, however, the government has shown signs of
   self-destruction. First to go was Radek Sikorski, the defence
   minister. He resigned because his military counter-intelligence
   service was snooping on him, at the behest of its chief, Antoni
   Macierewicz, a Kaczynski ally. Mr Macierewicz was in charge of
   liquidating the WSI, but has created a private spy service for the
   Kaczynskis in its place. The loss of Mr Sikorski, the only minister
   able to talk sense in English, will merely highlight his
   ex-colleagues' failings.

   Next came the departure of Ludwik Dorn, a deputy prime minister and
   head of the interior ministry. Known as the "third twin" for his
   closeness to the Kaczynskis, the brainy and hard-working Mr Dorn wrote
   a furious open letter to the prime minister, demanding indefinite
   leave (which was granted). The ostensible reason was a clash with Mr
   Ziobro.

   Two senior foreign-policy advisers have also left. The chaos suggests
   that the Kaczynskis' grip may be failing. Anybody wanting to survive
   in the government must be passive, mediocre and loyal, say Poles. One
   Polish weekly has even compared Jaroslaw Kaczynski to Vladimir Putin,
   an insult that is both shocking and a shade absurd. Yet Mr Kaczynski's
   statist, top-down approach and his disregard for the separation of
   powers do ring some faintly alarming bells.

   Even as their enemies become more hysterical, however, the Kaczynskis'
   supporters are untroubled. Law and Justice is polling a steady 28%,
   more than it scored in the election of September 2005. It would be
   rash to write the government off; Jaroslaw Kaczynski has often proved
   a masterly tactician. Some loyalists even suspect that Mr Dorn's
   half-resignation is part of a master-plan. Others think the
   government's troubles are a last-ditch diversion put up by the WSI in
   its death-throes.

   The bigger problem is that, aside from the justice ministry, reform
   has stalled in Poland. Its public administration remains unwieldy,
   incompetent and backward. Having booted the old government's cronies
   out of top jobs in public institutions and state-owned companies, the
   Kaczynskis have installed their own chums, rather than liberalising
   and depoliticising. Privatisation has almost stopped. Public
   purchasing is still deeply corrupt. The Kaczynskis' obsession with the
   wrongs of the past seems to blind them to what is happening under
   their noses.

   In foreign policy, farce is mixed with tragedy. The Kaczynskis have
   missed no opportunity to insult Germany--which under Angela Merkel has
   been trying to be friends. Their conduct of diplomacy is comically
   incompetent. Any advisers who know anything about abroad attract
   mistrust, and often dismissal. Hardly any officials are left who
   understand the European Union, for example, a grave matter with tricky
   negotiations over the EU constitution about to start again.

   Economics attracts similar disdain. The sole goal of economic policy
   was to remove Leszek Balcerowicz, author of Polish free-market reforms
   in the 1990s, from the central bank. Poland's most urgent task is to
   use the boom to cut the budget deficit. Taxes on labour are too high,
   squeezing wages and increasing the incentive to emigrate. A
   million-plus Poles have done just that since Poland joined the EU,
   creating widespread labour shortages.

   Vengeful, paranoid, addicted to crises, divided and mostly
   incompetent, the government survives mainly because the economy is
   strong and the opposition is feeble. Neither will last for ever.


   A good graphic can tell a story, bring a lump to the throat, even
   change policies. Here are three of history's best

   IT WAS at a dinner party in 1856 that Florence Nightingale met William
   Farr. The Lady of the Lamp was already famous for nursing British
   soldiers wounded in the Crimea; Farr, the Compiler of Abstracts in the
   General Registry Office, was widely recognised as an innovative
   statistician. Both cared deeply about improving the world through
   sanitation; both understood the importance of meticulous records in
   providing the evidence needed to bring about change.

                                                             Graphic News

                                Graphic News

   Farr was the first to compile "mortality tables", listing causes of
   death in the general population; Nightingale compared his numbers with
   her own on the deaths of soldiers to great effect. By showing that
   even in peacetime a soldier faced twice the risk of dying in a given
   year as a civilian, she campaigned successfully for better conditions
   in barracks. The pair were instrumental in setting up a royal
   commission of inquiry into sanitary conditions during the Crimean war.

   Although remembered as the mother of modern nursing, Nightingale was
   an accomplished statistician too. She was particularly innovative in
   presenting data visually. The example above, of a type now known as
   "Nightingale's Rose" or "Nightingale's Coxcomb", comes from her
   monograph, "Notes on matters affecting the health, efficiency and
   hospital administration of the British army" published in 1858. In the
   same year she became the first female fellow of the Statistical
   Society of London (now Royal Statistical Society).

   The chart displays the causes of the deaths of soldiers during the
   Crimean war, divided into three categories: "Preventible or Mitigable
   Zymotic Diseases" (infectious diseases, including cholera and
   dysentery, coloured in blue), "wounds" (red) and "all other causes"
   (black). As with today's pie charts, the area of each wedge is
   proportional to the figure it stands for, but it is the radius of each
   slice (the distance from the common centre to the outer edge) rather
   than the angle that is altered to achieve this. Her principal
   message--that even during periods of heavy fighting, such as November
   1854, far more soldiers died from infection than from wounds--can be
   seen at a glance. She sent the chart to the War Office; and it is a
   fair assumption that it contributed to the improvements in military
   hospitals that she brought about.

   Nightingale's chart is a beautiful and persuasive call to action, but
   it is not perfect. The red, black and blue wedges are all measured
   from the centre, so some areas mask parts of others. The numbers of
   deaths from the various causes are not stated--although, to be fair,
   it was their relative size that Nightingale wished to show.

                                                             Graphic News

                                Graphic News

   The chart to the left also tells the story of a war: Napoleon's
   Russian campaign of 1812. It was drawn half a century afterwards by
   Charles Joseph Minard, a French civil engineer who worked on dams,
   canals and bridges. He was 80 years old and long retired when, in
   1861, he called on the innovative techniques he had invented for the
   purpose of displaying flows of people, in order to tell the tragic
   tale in a single image. Edward Tufte, whose book, "The Visual Display
   of Quantitative Information" is a bible to statisticians, calls it
   "the best statistical graphic ever drawn".

   Minard's chart shows six types of information: geography, time,
   temperature, the course and direction of the army's movement, and the
   number of troops remaining. The widths of the gold (outward) and black
   (returning) paths represent the size of the force, one millimetre to
   10,000 men. Geographical features and major battles are marked and
   named, and plummeting temperatures on the return journey are shown
   along the bottom.

   The chart tells the dreadful story with painful clarity: in 1812, the
   Grand Army set out from Poland with a force of 422,000; only 100,000
   reached Moscow; and only 10,000 returned. The detail and
   understatement with which such horrifying loss is represented combine
   to bring a lump to the throat. As men tried, and mostly failed, to
   cross the Brzina river under heavy attack, the width of the black
   line halves: another 20,000 or so gone. The French now use the
   expression "C'est la Brzina" to describe a total disaster.

   In 1871, the year after Minard died, his obituarist cited particularly
   his graphical innovations: "For the dry and complicated columns of
   statistical data, of which the analysis and the discussion always
   require a great sustained mental effort, he had substituted images
   mathematically proportioned, that the first glance takes in and knows
   without fatigue, and which manifest immediately the natural
   consequences or the comparisons unforeseen." The chart shown here is
   singled out for special mention: it "inspires bitter reflections on
   the cost to humanity of the madnesses of conquerors and the merciless
   thirst of military glory".

                                                             Graphic News

                                Graphic News

   The chart to the left is the earliest of our three. It was published
   in 1821 by William Playfair, a Scottish engineer, political economist
   and scoundrel: he was convicted of libel in England and swindling in
   France. Alongside these many and varied skills he was also an engraver
   (he produced some of James Watt's engineering drawings), which
   explains this image's handsomeness, with its delicate shading and
   ornate attribution.

   Playfair liked controversial topics. He drew a chart comparing tax
   levels in various countries in order to show that Britain's was too
   high. He was the first to show imports and exports on one chart,
   shading the area between the two to indicate the balance of trade and
   explaining that the intersection of the lines showed a shift in favour
   of one country or the other.

   This chart, his most famous, shows the "weekly wages of a good
   mechanic" and the "price of a quarter of wheat", with the reigns of
   monarchs displayed along the top. It is a little difficult to see the
   point Playfair wished to make: "that never at any former period was
   wheat so cheap, in proportion to mechanical labour as it is at the
   present time". Presumably he was not familiar with the idea of
   combining two variables--prices and wages--to make a
   third--affordability. Still, he should not be overly criticised for
   this. For a start, his conclusion was correct. Statisticians have used
   his data to plot wages divided by prices (showing how much wheat a
   week's wages would buy) against time, and the point becomes clear--as,
   incidentally, does a more subtle one: the increase in buying power was
   slowing down.

   And Playfair was already making a leap of abstraction that few of his
   contemporaries could follow. Using the horizontal and vertical axes to
   represent time and money was such a novelty that he had to explain it
   painstakingly in accompanying text. "This method has struck several
   persons as being fallacious", he wrote, "because geometrical
   measurement has not any relation to money or to time; yet here it is
   made to represent both."

   He was the first in a series of economists, statisticians and social
   reformers who wanted to use data not only to inform but also to
   persuade and even campaign--and who understood that when the eye
   comprehends, the heart often follows. Nightingale hoped her charts
   would liven up her publications; the queen, she thought, might look at
   the pictures, even if she did not read the words.

   Not everyone thought it was right to include such fripperies in a
   sober publication. "We do not want impressions, we want facts," Farr
   wrote to her in 1861. "You complain that your report would be dry. The
   dryer the better. Statistics should be the dryest of all reading."
   Fortunately, she ignored him.


   A small European Union country fears it may be swamped by migrants

   NO EVENT has been awaited in Malta with greater eagerness than the
   start of Operation Nautilus II. After a pilot scheme last year, the
   hope was that patrol boats, helicopters and aircraft from all over the
   European Union would converge on the seas between Malta and Libya, to
   keep at bay the tide of migrants surging into the EU's smallest and
   most crowded member.

   Most of the migrants come from the Horn of Africa. They leave Libya on
   overloaded, unseaworthy vessels. A lot die before reaching safety (at
   least 12 bodies were recovered this week). The perils they face, and
   the attitudes of some Maltese, were laid bare last month, when 27
   migrants were found clinging to tuna pens attached to a Maltese-owned
   vessel in international waters. They had been there for three days.
   The owner refused to let them on to his boat, claiming they might
   seize it.

   Yet if there is a solution to this problem, Nautilus II is not likely
   to supply it. Italy is withholding its co-operation. The Italian
   interior minister, Giuliano Amato, argues that the entire exercise is
   pointless unless it involves Libya, which has not even replied to the
   EU's invitation. Frontex, the EU agency in charge of the scheme,
   cannot say if any other country will take part.

   Without Libya's help, Frontex's patrols will be unable to send
   migrants back. Instead, the agency's spokesman says, they will be
   "informed that what they are doing [is] illegal and given
   life-jackets". If their vessel is in distress, they will be rescued
   and taken to the nearest safe place--perhaps Lampedusa or Pantelleria,
   two Italian islands, but often Malta itself. Far from deterring
   migration to the island, Nautilus II could end up making it faster and
   safer.

   Anti-immigrant feeling is running high in Malta. On June 9th a new
   far-right party, Azzjoni Nazzjonali, appeared. The solution of its
   leader, Josie Muscat, is to ship new arrivals "to the edge of our
   territorial waters and say `We're sorry, but this is where our
   responsibility stops'". His views are extreme, but both mainstream
   parties agree that Malta is at bursting-point. "The numbers who came
   to Malta last year are equivalent to half our birth rate," says the
   prime minister, Lawrence Gonzi. "There is no way Malta can absorb
   them." His answer is to get other EU countries to help with the
   repatriation of migrants who are refused refugee or similar status;
   and to share out what he calls the "excess numbers" of those who do.

   What few in Malta acknowledge is that its immigrants are a consequence
   of EU entry three years ago. With few exceptions, those who land in
   Malta want to get to Italy or farther north. Until they joined the EU
   in 2004, the Maltese did little to stop them pursuing their journey
   (often with travel documents valid only in Maltese airspace, issued by
   a Roman Catholic church group). But EU entry stopped that by imposing
   the so-called "Dublin system", which puts responsibility for
   asylum-seekers on the country where they first arrive.

   Malta may be densely populated (three times more than the
   Netherlands), but its immigrant population is still tiny. Officials
   say they have no precise total, but their estimate is below
   3,000--fewer than the commonly touted figure of 7,000 arrivals since
   2002, and less than 1% of the island's 400,000 population. Malta's EU
   partners could be forgiven for feeling that, as in other respects, the
   union's southernmost member is just catching up with them.


                                                            Peter Schrank

                               Peter Schrank

   Its newest members offer the European Union some history lessons

   JAVIER SOLANA, the European Union's top foreign-policy honcho,
   recently offered a neat turn of phrase to explain the importance that
   Europeans attach to the past. Ponder the phrase "that's history", and
   what it implies on either side of the Atlantic, he suggested. When
   Americans say something is "history", they mean it is no longer
   relevant. When Europeans say the same thing, "they usually mean the
   opposite".

   Is this mere wordplay? If only. History lies at the heart of many
   disputes that are causing such angst in today's EU. Thorny topics
   include Russia's bullying of small Baltic states, fierce rows in such
   countries as Poland and Romania over how far to probe communist-era
   collaboration, not to mention the stand-off between Greeks and Turks
   in Cyprus. Some of these historical quarrels are unfamiliar to western
   Europeans, and they are often highly inconvenient to boot. Small
   wonder that a few longer-established union members are handling the
   arrival of their newer colleagues rather badly.

   The EU used to know where it stood on history--it was best kept
   simple, and in the past. In the early decades, history was about one
   big thing: the second world war, and the grand project of
   Franco-German reconciliation. From the outset, the EU was partly meant
   to make war unthinkable inside Europe. But over the years that miracle
   of continental forgiveness has ossified into something more
   inflexible, even smug. Just as pioneering Eurocrats toiled to create
   single European markets in widgets or wheat, their political masters
   crafted something approaching an approved single European history
   (challenged only in awkward-squad Britain, where the war was a matter
   of national pride). This history portrayed a smooth moral progression
   from nationalism and conflict (bad) to the sunny uplands of
   compromise, dialogue and border-free brotherhood (good).

   Enlargement is now challenging all this--especially the recent
   expansion to 27 countries, including ten former communist ones. The
   clumsy reactions of old EU members are partly to do with ignorance.
   Enlargement has introduced lots of alien grievances, sending old
   Brussels hands scurrying to their encyclopedias to mug up on the 1920
   Treaty of Trianon (hated in Hungary) and Carinthian plebiscite (it
   makes Slovenes fume). But less forgivably, some of the insensitivity
   of older club members carries a whiff of moral superiority, a sense
   that it is un-European (not to mention uncouth) to bear historical
   grudges.

   European politicians have always been quick to use post-war
   reconciliation as a cudgel to pre-empt further debate. This can get
   pretty shameless. Josep Borrell, then president of the European
   Parliament, once dismissed campaigners against the parliament's
   nonsensical monthly trek from Brussels to Strasbourg, because they
   were Swedish: how could Swedes understand that Strasbourg, a much
   fought-over border city, symbolised Franco-German reconciliation, he
   asked. This "historic dimension" was lost on a country that "did not
   participate" in the second world war (though nor did Mr Borrell's--he
   is from Spain).

   Lofty talk of European brotherhood also conceals the fact that, even
   among the founder members of the club, there are deep differences
   about how to reconcile societies with their past. At one end is the
   German model of swift and repeated repentance. Other countries took
   much longer to break with post-war silence and myth-making (France
   springs to mind). Still others moved on from dictatorship to democracy
   via pacts of national amnesia that are only now being challenged
   (think of Spain). It is striking that French politicians have been
   vocal critics of the Polish government over its recent (admittedly
   cack-handed) project to cleanse public life of former collaborators
   (see [3]article). German politicians, with their tradition of
   purgative truth-telling, have been more muted.

   In victory, defeat

   Above all, the authorised version of European history has floundered
   in the face of new members for whom the second world war is not the
   end of any debate, but a starting-point for new rows. The EU now has a
   fistful of ex-communist countries for whom, as one Brussels official
   puts it, "Strasbourg is not a symbol, and 1945 is not a magic year".
   When Polish politicians mention Auschwitz, it is often to complain
   about it being called a "Polish death camp", rather than the wording
   they feel is correct: a Nazi death camp located in Poland. The latest
   row between Estonia and Russia concerns the relocation of a Soviet war
   monument from the centre of Tallinn. Earlier this year, the Baltics
   led an unsuccessful push to add Stalin's crimes to an EU directive
   covering Holocaust denial.

   This is not to say that the newcomers inevitably have right on their
   side. Some nasty anti-Semites lurk within Polish politics. The Baltics
   mis-timed their push for recognition of Stalin's crimes: a directive
   about racism and xenophobia was the wrong vehicle. But that is no
   excuse for the impatient eye-rolling with which newcomers are often
   greeted when they air historical grievances. (During a discussion of
   Estonia's war-memorial row, the German ambassador to the EU observed
   cheerfully that Berlin was still home to Soviet war monuments, and
   even sculptures of Lenin, as if that was comparable.)

   It matters that the EU has a tin ear for some of its members'
   historical memories. It is, at the least, bad manners--not to mention
   bad tactics when dealing with Russian assertiveness. In future,
   history may matter still more, assuming that the union follows
   strategic logic and enlarges once more to take in new members from the
   Balkans (and perhaps Turkey, even if that is a lot further off). These
   are rough neighbourhoods, where history can still get people killed.
   If the EU does not learn to listen to and understand different views
   of the past, it may find itself stumbling when confronting future
   conflicts inside and outside the union. And that would be an historic
   mistake.


   What the Lisbon and Brussels summits say about today's Europe



   IN THESE carbon-conscious times, there was much carping because
   European Union leaders held a party in Portugal to sign their new
   treaty, only to fly 1,700km (1,060 miles) to Brussels for a formal
   summit the next day. This jet-setting was indeed wasteful, and not
   only in the obvious way. The Lisbon bash on December 13th was both
   interesting and revealing; it was the summit in Brussels that was dull
   and largely devoid of substance.

   Lisbon's revelations included the fact that EU leaders are unsure how
   to treat their union's almost-anthem, the "Ode to Joy". This bit of
   Beethoven's ninth symphony was given formal status in the defunct EU
   constitution only to be ditched, along with the flag and the motto,
   when the text was reworked into a "reform treaty". In Lisbon it took a
   moment for people to recognise the Beethoven being thumped out on a
   piano. But as a choir began singing the "Ode to Joy", most jumped to
   their feet (the Austrian chancellor, Alfred Gusenbauer, showily
   singing along).

   It took an instant longer for some, including Britain's foreign
   secretary, David Miliband, to stand. History can only guess what his
   boss, Gordon Brown, would have done had he made it to the ceremony.
   Alas, Britain's prime minister arrived in Lisbon hours late, after a
   wholly unconvincing diary clash. As a man unimpressed by
   Euro-flummery, he signed the treaty alone at a vast desk, as if acting
   out "splendid isolation" in a diplomatic game of charades. It is
   revealing that his doing so caused a fuss. Within the EU, Mr Brown's
   semi-absence from the stage is now presented as a problem, unbalancing
   the triangle of the union's heavyweights, France, Germany and Britain.

   In Brussels, there is much talk of the awful personal chemistry
   between Germany's chancellor, Angela Merkel, and France's president,
   Nicolas Sarkozy, even if the machinery of Franco-German co-operation
   remains. It would be hard to find two more different personalities,
   suggests one senior figure. Ms Merkel is a calm scientist, attentive
   to detail. Mr Sarkozy is "excitable", and a "pure political animal".
   One European minister says simply: "A lot of European politics at the
   moment is about Sarkozy management. You have all this policy coming
   out in spasms, the idea is to limit the collateral damage."

   European leaders agreed to two things in Brussels. The first was to
   send 1,800 policemen, judges and officials to Kosovo. This matters,
   but not as much as it sounds. The mission was agreed only in principle
   and its legal basis remains unclear. The second was to create a
   "reflection group", which has until June 2010 to think about the
   challenges facing the EU between 2020 and 2030. In case that pace
   seems too breakneck, the group (chaired by a former Spanish prime
   minister, Felipe Gonzlez, with help from a former Latvian president,
   Vaira Vike-Freiberga, and from Jorma Ollila, a Finnish businessman who
   chairs both Nokia and Royal Dutch Shell) has until the second half of
   next year merely to choose its nine members. That was about it, even
   though the summit conclusions ramble on for many pages--talking of the
   "crucial role" of tourism, asking for a "strategy for the Baltic Sea
   region". The summit lasted less than a day, stunning veterans used to
   coffee-fuelled marathons lasting 36 hours or more.

   Boosters talk up the Lisbon treaty as relaunching the EU after its
   constitutional crisis. Judging by the summit's mood it is more like a
   coalition government that has only just survived a vote of no
   confidence in parliament: everyone is weary and wary of fresh
   divisions, at least until the treaty is safely ratified. The next big
   Euro-row (about allocating targets for cuts in carbon emissions)
   cannot start until next year, when a proposal will be made by the
   European Commission. Subjects that might have triggered squabbles at
   this summit were mostly dealt with beforehand: a funding dispute about
   Galileo, a planned European satellite-navigation system to rival
   America's GPS; another spat about Turkey's membership negotiations.

   The limits to Europe

   Many December summits have featured rows about enlargement. There
   could have been an especially nasty one this time: Mr Sarkozy's
   hostility to Turkish accession is visceral. Indeed, it is the reason
   for the new reflection group. In August Mr Sarkozy made clear that
   France would block any more talks with Turkey unless a group of
   "sages" was invited to ponder the future. Such groups are not actually
   meant to reflect; they usually act as stalking horses for factions
   pushing big innovations, such as the single currency. So Mr Sarkozy's
   colleagues assumed that he wanted the reflection group to define
   Europe's future borders (and to discover that Turkey lies beyond
   them).

   Several governments, backed by the commission, accordingly fought to
   give the group a less alarming brief. Its mandate now makes no mention
   of borders, and it explicitly rules out discussion of the next EU
   budget or further changes to institutions. But efforts to defang the
   beast did not quite succeed: language about studying the stability of
   the EU and "the wider region" will surely allow the group to discuss
   enlargement.

   Fizzing with excitement, Mr Sarkozy insisted that the group would
   "certainly" ask whether the EU needed frontiers, to determine whether
   political union was part of a "new European dream". Yet in a next-door
   room Mr Brown offered a wholly different vision: the group would
   discuss "economic, environmental and security challenges" and
   globalisation. Indeed, Mr Brown's mood visibly lifted as he talked of
   the "exciting" prospect of more EU co-operation with such bodies as
   the IMF. And when he got to the Bank of International Settlements, he
   became positively cheerful.

   The conclusion is clear. EU leaders disagree profoundly about what
   Europe is: a political project, or just an exercise in international
   economic governance. A summit that debated these differences would be
   worth holding. But this summit was not. A more rational EU would have
   simply scrapped it.


   A settlement in Transdniestria is bad news for Moldova--and the West 

   ITS consequences may be disastrous, but a deal on the worst
   territorial dispute in Europe's poorest country was still too
   tempting. Moldova, sandwiched between Ukraine and Romania, has been
   split ever since a brief civil war in 1992. Its industrialised part--a
   strip of land to the east of the Dniester river--maintains an
   unrecognised independence, propped up by Russia's cheap gas and its
   contingent of "peacekeepers".

   Transdniestria, as it is called, is a black hole. It makes weapons,
   ranging from cheap submachineguns to high-tech missile parts. The
   customers are unknown. It also has lucratively porous borders: one
   common scam is to smuggle American chicken-meat in and out of
   Ukraine's protected home market, at a profit of some EUR700 ($950) per
   tonne.

   Previous attempts to broker a peace deal have got nowhere.
   Transdniestria's rulers have close ties with business-minded
   counterparts in Ukraine, Russia and even in Moldova proper. And Russia
   is unwilling to give up a sliver of its former empire. Last year it
   imposed a punishing embargo on Moldovan wine. But now Moldova is
   shifting its position. Last week President Vladimir Voronin set out a
   new approach that suits the Kremlin--but will dismay Moldova's friends
   in the West.

   In a declaration to be signed jointly with the Transdniestrian leader,
   Igor Smirnov, Moldova will for the first time recognise
   Transdniestria's government and leadership as legitimate entities.
   Voters on both sides will elect a new Moldovan parliament.
   Transdniestria will keep its Supreme Soviet and have top deputy
   ministers in the national government. By 2009 Russia's troops will be
   replaced by unarmed international monitors.

   American and European Union diplomats found out about all this only
   when Vladimir Socor, a Munich-based analyst, published a leaked
   version last week. Now officials in Washington, DC, and Brussels are
   urgently seeking clarification. They hope it is an idea, not a real
   plan, but they fear the worst. Even unencumbered by Transdniestria,
   Moldova's economy has been lacklustre. Of its 4.4m people, at least
   400,000 have emigrated; the country survives on their remittances. A
   dose of Transdniestrian politics is likely only to strengthen all the
   darkest forces in Moldovan public life.

   And what guarantee is there that the deal will stick? "Russia tends to
   take agreements as the basis not for implementation, but for further
   negotiation," says one cross official. The Kremlin has twice ignored
   previous deadlines for withdrawing troops. Suppose that, in a year's
   time, it finds pressing reasons for staying on?

   A third question concerns the Transdniestrian KGB. Closely linked to
   Moscow, it is run by Vladimir Antufeyev, who was involved in a failed
   Soviet crackdown in the Baltic states in 1990. Many think it is he,
   not Mr Smirnov, who runs the show. The Moldovan minister for
   Transdniestria, Vasile Sova, insists Mr Antufeyev and his pals must
   leave. Will they?

   But the biggest puzzle is the timing. Russia's president, Vladimir
   Putin, may have convinced Mr Voronin, a nave ex-baker, that the
   moment was ripe for a deal. Russia may have wanted a quick fix to
   contrast with the wrangles at the United Nations over the future of
   Kosovo, Serbia's breakaway province. Yet if the Kremlin was in such a
   rush, why was it Moldova that had to make concessions?

   Crony capitalism could be triumphing over other differences. A top
   Moldovan politician's scrap-metal business sells mainly to a steel
   mill in Transdniestria. The son of another has a chain of fast-food
   restaurants that operates in the separatists' capital, Tiraspol. In
   theory, cash from the West should counteract any pull from the east:
   foreign donors have pledged more than $1.2 billion to Moldova in the
   next three years. But much of this depends on reforms that the
   country's lethargic and corrupt administration is loth to embrace.

   It will be hard for outsiders to block the deal; they may not even
   bother to try. If they did, they might be called wreckers, given that
   both sides want it. Yet Mr Voronin's plan means that Russia has, for
   once, trumped the West. Who might be next?


   Yulia Tymoshenko wins, but there are still doubts surrounding her
   coalition


   TWO hours after the polls closed in Ukraine's election on September
   30th the opposition leader, Yulia Tymoshenko, strode into a private
   suite in Kiev's smartest hotel, where European observers were waiting.
   At that moment Viktor Yanukovich, the incumbent prime minister,
   appeared on television looking shell-shocked. The exit polls were
   still coming in, but the first results were reflected on the
   politicians' faces. "We have the right to form the new government," Mr
   Yanukovich bleated. "Oh dear," said Ms Tymoshenko, before switching
   off the television, "he does look like an upset child."

   Days later Mr Yanukovich had bounced back. His Party of the Regions
   took the biggest share of the vote, as it had in March 2006. But the
   momentum is still running Ms Tymoshenko's way. She is the only
   politician whose popularity has risen sharply, boosting her party's
   share of the vote from 22% 18 months ago to almost 31%. With Our
   Ukraine, the party of President Viktor Yushchenko, taking 14%, there
   is a tiny majority for an "orange" coalition with Ms Tymoshenko as the
   most likely prime minister.

   Forming that government depends on Ms Tymoshenko and Mr Yushchenko
   sticking together. On October 3rd Mr Yushchenko called on all three
   parties to start talks over a coalition. But Ms Tymoshenko promptly
   said she could not work with Mr Yanukovich, as did some members of Our
   Ukraine.

   The voters' strong support for Ms Tymoshenko suggests that, for all
   their disillusionment in the past few years, they want reform just as
   much as they did when they poured into Kiev's Independence Square in
   the snows of late 2004. The orange revolution that pushed Mr
   Yushchenko into the presidency instead of Mr Yanukovich turned Ukraine
   from a corrupt post-Soviet autocracy into a fragile democracy. That Mr
   Yushchenko's support is now relatively weak reflects not a change of
   mood but his failure to live up to the orange revolution's promises.

   The latest election has restored the divide between the Party of the
   Regions and the orange coalition. This same line separates a
   post-Soviet thuggish political culture from a proto-European one. If
   Mr Yushchenko tries to blur the line by working with Mr Yanukovich, as
   he did in 2006, he is likely to land the country in a new political
   crisis.

   For all the faults that became evident when she was briefly prime
   minister in 2005, Ms Tymoshenko has remained consistent. Unlike Mr
   Yushchenko, she has always rejected the idea of forming a coalition
   with her opponents. Unlike Mr Yanukovich, she has not tried to change
   her image with the help of American spin-doctors. In the eyes of
   millions of Ukrainians, she is still the blonde heroine of the orange
   revolution and a victim of, not a participant in, the infighting among
   the president's men.

   She promises a break with the past that appeals to those who feel let
   down by successive governments. And she has broad support. Mr
   Yushchenko draws his vote largely from the west of Ukraine, and Mr
   Yanukovich from the Russian-speaking east and south. Ms Tymoshenko is
   less territorial: most of her voters live in central Ukraine, but in
   this election she has made inroads in both east and west. The risk of
   Ukraine splitting down the River Dnieper was always overdone. After
   this election it looks smaller still.

   Ms Tymoshenko avoids the sensitive issue of making Russian a second
   official language and no longer pushes for early entry into NATO,
   opposed by the south and east. Like most of her countrymen, she
   believes that the future of Ukraine lies in the European Union. But,
   claims Hryhory Nemyria, her chief adviser, there is a distinction. She
   does not see membership as a reward to be handed out merely for
   breaking out of the post-Soviet space, or as a source of quick
   economic goodies. "To her, being part of Europe means modernising
   Ukraine first," he says. "We can only come as close to the EU as we
   are ready."

   She also promises to clean up chronic corruption and sever the links
   between business and politics. (Each party in Ukraine is backed by
   powerful business interests, including her own.) Having made her
   fortune in murky gas trades between Russia and Ukraine in the early
   1990s, Ms Tymoshenko now says she will eliminate all shady
   intermediaries and make the gas trade transparent. As soon as she
   emerged as a potential winner this week, Gazprom, Russia's gas giant,
   started growling about the $1.3 billion of debt Ukraine owes for gas
   and threatened to cut off supplies, just as it did in January 2006.

   Ms Tymoshenko is the most professional politician in Ukraine, but also
   the most populist. She has promised within two years to reimburse the
   savings people lost when the Soviet Union collapsed--a pledge even her
   advisers say is unrealistic. Her period as prime minister in 2005 was
   marked by talk of reviewing privatisation deals and capping fuel
   prices. But she has learnt lessons, says Mr Nemyria, and is now more
   pragmatic. Whatever she does, though, she will be held accountable by
   those who voted for her, because Ukraine has since 2004 become a
   recognisable democracy in which power is granted and taken away on the
   basis of elections that are broadly free and fair.

   That is the biggest achievement of all by this former Soviet republic,
   and it is appreciated by losers as well as winners. As Yuri
   Miroshnychenko, a young member of the Party of the Regions, puts it:
   "There is no absolute power in Ukraine. We can work in opposition and
   her coming to power is not a tragedy for us. The most important thing
   is that Ukraine is moving in the right direction. Today it is becoming
   Europe. There is no way back."


   A better way to skin the Kremlin's cat 

   WHEN the rulers of the newly independent Russia surveyed their vast,
   fissiparous territory, there was one uppity Muslim region that worried
   them especially: not Chechnya, but Tatarstan, an oil-rich
   semi-autonomous republic on the Volga. Yet whereas Chechnya has been
   wrecked by war, and umpteen of its leaders have died violently,
   Tatarstan is still governed by Mintimer Shaimiev, the local boss since
   1989.

   Part of the difference is geography: Chechnya is on Russia's fraying
   Caucasian edge, which made it more susceptible to foreign extremism.
   Part is history. The brutal 19th-century conquest of the Caucasus
   created an enmity, wrote Tolstoy, "stronger than hatred, for [the
   Chechens] did not regard those Russian dogs as human beings."
   Tatarstan's capital, Kazan, fell to Ivan the Terrible in 1552--a
   defining moment in Russia's imperial history and imagination. Many
   Tatars, Russia's second-largest ethnic group, have long seen Russia as
   their country too. "This is our motherland," says Gusman Iskhakov,
   Tatarstan's mufti, "and you cannot choose your motherland."

   Still, in the early 1990s, says Mr Shaimiev, probably without
   exaggeration, demands for Tatar sovereignty threatened the integrity
   of the whole Russian federation. But by cannily portraying himself as
   both a champion of Tatar national feeling and a bulwark against it, Mr
   Shaimiev peacefully secured most of the attributes of a state
   (including overseas representation). The Chechens' big mistake, he
   says, was to declare independence outright: "Russia didn't gather
   these lands just to give them away."

   Mr Shaimiev's own rule could almost have been a model for Vladimir
   Putin's. Political competition and critical media have been squeezed.
   But, corruption notwithstanding, the economy is ticking over, as the
   construction cranes that rival the minarets in Kazan's skyline attest.
   With its special talent for blasphemy, the Soviet regime turned many
   of Kazan's mosques into stables and gyms. Now the mosques have
   reopened--and gratitude for the local religious revival seems to trump
   solidarity with Chechnya. "Glory to God that we have Shaimiev!" says
   the leader of an Islamic women's group. Chechen rebels' dreams of
   opening a "Volga front" have withered. Mr Shaimiev has become a useful
   prop in the Kremlin's Arab diplomacy.

   Still, like all regional governors, under Mr Putin's centralising
   reforms he is now subject to the indignity of re-appointment by the
   Kremlin: a temporary change, needed to establish order, Mr Shaimiev
   says tactfully, while also insisting that Tatarstan's right to elect
   its leader has been only suspended. Just as gratingly, a new treaty
   delineating his republic's powers has been held up in Russia's
   parliament (the old agreement, signed in the laissez-faire Yeltsin
   years, has expired). The few remaining nationalists are still hoping
   for a shock; after all, argues one, nobody predicted the end of the
   Soviet Union. More likely, after a fudge, Tatarstan and the eternal Mr
   Shaimiev will carry on much as before.


   After a good summer, Romano Prodi's government faces harder economic
   times

   HAS there ever been a sunnier Italian summer? August was dull, but
   June was radiant and July scorching. September is proving unseasonably
   hot. The sunniness has not been confined to the weather. At first
   blush, good news has been piling up on the desk of Italy's finance
   minister, Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa, ever since he said in June that the
   state of the public accounts was worse than in 1992 (the year Italy
   and Britain were forced out of Europe's exchange-rate mechanism).

   First it became clear that the economy was rebounding faster than
   expected. Last week the Paris-based OECD raised its forecast of
   Italy's 2006 GDP growth from 1.4% to 1.8% (though this is still the
   slowest in Europe). Then the government found that enhanced growth was
   feeding into higher tax revenues. So much so that Romano Prodi, the
   leader of Italy's centre-left government, was able to announce that he
   was jettisoning EUR5 billion ($6.5 billion) of the spending cuts that
   he had planned for 2007. He did not, he said, "want to make Italians
   weep".

   Since then some figures have got better still. Italy's public
   borrowing requirement for the first eight months of the year was
   EUR36.4 billion, some EUR22 billion less than in 2005. Officials are
   now pencilling in a 2006 budget deficit of 3.8-3.9% of GDP. But, in an
   analysis just posted on an Italian economics website,
   [3]www.lavoce.info, two of the country's leading public-finance
   experts, Tito Boeri and Pietro Garibaldi, argue that this is
   pessimistic and that nobody should be surprised "if we end the year
   not far off [the euro-area limit of] 3%". Either way, the picture
   looks far healthier than the 4.6% that is still forecast for next year
   by the OECD (see chart).

   All this seems bizarrely at odds with the growing belief, particularly
   in London, that Italy may risk falling out of the euro. A study being
   published shortly by a London-based think-tank, the Centre for
   European Reform (CER), puts the odds of this happening at a daunting
   40%. Mr Padoa-Schioppa is scathing about such talk. "My time is rather
   short, and I decided not to spend any of it on nonsensical scenarios,"
   he says. "That is a nonsensical scenario."

   Is it? There are, in fact, two variants of it. One envisages Italy's
   public finances deteriorating to the point where its debt loses
   investment grade (which would require only two further downgrades by
   the main rating agencies). That would sharply raise debt-servicing
   costs, pitching the government into a downward spiral of surging
   interest rates and rising deficits.

   The latest data make such an outcome much less likely in the immediate
   future. But there is a danger of the government's falling victim to
   complacency. For the left-wing parties in Mr Prodi's coalition will
   seize on any reports of smaller budget deficits to demand fewer cuts
   in next year's budget. If the world economy were suddenly to turn
   down, which is by no means impossible, the deterioration in Italy's
   public finances could be sudden.

   Italy has not only a substantial budget deficit but, more tellingly,
   the world's third-largest debt. Last year it rose for the first time
   as a percentage of GDP (to around 108%). The primary budget surplus
   (ie, before interest payments) shrank to 0.5% of GDP, down from almost
   5% in 2000. As the CER pamphlet notes, "Italy needs to run a primary
   budget surplus of 2-3% of GDP to prevent the ratio of public debt to
   GDP from rising further." In other words, Mr Padoa-Schioppa's warnings
   earlier this year were objectively true: for all the recent
   improvements, the underlying situation may be worse than in 1992.

   Given that, Mr Prodi's readiness to trim his planned budget cuts has,
   not surprisingly, caused concern. The OECD said it was "disappointed".
   An executive board member of the European Central Bank, Lorenzo Bini
   Smaghi, noted that revenue increases were a "temporary factor which
   may not be repeated". Joaqun Almunia, the European economics
   commissioner, stressed that, for a country whose debts exceed annual
   output, "tidying up public finances is not merely a case of bringing
   the budget deficit down". Seen from Brussels, Italy is increasingly
   the big test of the new (and weaker) stability pact, which is supposed
   to set fiscal rules for euro members. Under it, governments get more
   flexibility in bad times--but they are meant to show greater
   discipline in good times.

   Mr Padoa-Schioppa says that the cabinet agreed to the EUR5 billion
   relaxation because it matched the structural element of this year's
   revenue improvement. As for other budget cuts, he detects "a readiness
   to accept the basic adjustments we propose". However, the biggest
   communist party in government, which has refused to underwrite its
   medium-term economic strategy, is on record as saying that the budget
   plans are "unsustainable". The government is aiming to cut pensions,
   health spending, public-sector employment and local-government
   spending. All of these cuts are unpopular with one or more parties
   within the coalition.

   Yet it is the second variant of Italy leaving the euro that should
   perhaps be more worrying. This envisages the country pulling out
   because its competitiveness erodes to a point where membership becomes
   too painful. Indeed, it is this continuing loss of competitiveness,
   and not its public finances, that may be the biggest economic problem
   facing Italy. The CER study concludes that it is five minutes to
   midnight, and that the Italian government "needs to act now to ensure
   the country's long-term membership of the euro zone".

   Over the past few years Italian competitiveness has deteriorated at an
   alarming rate. Between 2000 and 2004 "total factor productivity" fell
   by an average of 1.2% a year, the worst performance in the EU 15
   countries. At the same time, both inflation and nominal wage growth
   have been higher than in other euro members, especially Germany.

   Mr Padoa-Schioppa sees his main task as "making the economy better fit
   for growth". The growth will depend largely on the efforts of the
   private sector and, to the extent that the public sector can help, on
   further liberalisation by ministries other than his own. But a
   defiantly reforming 2007 budget remains crucial to the country's
   economic prospects. Italy has, in effect, already used up this year's
   unexpected windfall. The government has three years ahead without any
   elections, when it could push through big reforms. If it fails to do
   so because some parties in the coalition resist, the consequences
   could be dire. The warmth of summer can give way to colder weather
   surprisingly quickly.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=42784658?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=9615537
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

   Young layabouts suffer a drought

   A NEW disease is abroad in eastern Germany: Frauenmangel, lack of
   women. In some towns there are only 75 young women for every 100 young
   men. In one or two there are as few as 40. The effects are worrying,
   not only because populations may shrink but also because of the
   existence of a growing underclass of young men who are partnerless,
   underqualified and jobless.

   A study by the Berlin Institute for Population and Development has
   looked at Herzberg and Ebersbach, two small towns in eastern Germany.
   "Even the mayor of Ebersbach hadn't realised this is going on," says
   Reiner Klingholz, the institute's director. It is a vicious spiral.
   Girls are more studious than boys, so they get better qualified and
   migrate west to find both partners and jobs. The boys lack role models
   at home, where fathers are often unemployed, and at school, where
   teachers are mostly female. Young men now account for 65% of German
   high-school dropouts.

   The few women who stay prefer single parenthood to hitching themselves
   to useless partners--benefits for single mothers are generous. It is
   women who are now masters of their destinies. The study, which
   combines reportage with figures, tells of frustrated gangs of youths
   drinking outside supermarkets and sleeping on their loading ramps.

   What can be done? Eastern Germany is now a laboratory for the rest of
   Europe, says Mr Klingholz, since other places are starting to see the
   same phenomenon. Better education is the key. "We have to take the
   risk that the young men will then emigrate too," he says. At least
   they will find jobs more easily. The federal government wants to
   identify two "model regions" where it can spend money on urban renewal
   and health, education and sports facilities. This smacks of too little
   too late--it is 17 years since unification. But it is better than the
   "watering-can" of sprinkling cash everywhere in hopes that something
   grows.

   The despair shows itself in many ways. The death rate among young men
   in Mecklenburg-West Pomerania, in eastern Germany, is twice as high as
   in the west's North-Rhine Westphalia, mainly because of road accidents
   (despite there being fewer cars). And the most fertile ground for the
   extreme-right NPD is now in places with a shortage of women, not high
   unemployment.


    Gomorrah: A Personal Journey into the Violent International Empire of
                                           Naples' Organized Crime System
                        By Roberto Saviano. Translated by Virginia Jewiss
                                                         [0374165270.jpg]
                               Farrar, Straus and Giroux; 320 pages; $25.
                                                        Macmillan; 16.99
                                                                Buy it at
                                                            [3]Amazon.com
                                                          [4]Amazon.co.uk

   CONVENTIONAL wisdom has it that Italy's economy is failing, in part
   because it cannot produce corporations big enough to compete
   internationally. "Gomorrah" is a useful corrective to that view.

   Roberto Saviano demonstrates that the Camorra, the Naples Mafia which
   provides the word-play for his book's title, is doing just fine in the
   globalised economy. Once a web of mobsters whose most international
   activity was smuggling cigarettes, the Camorra eases uninspected
   Chinese goods into Europe and provides loans at usurious rates to the
   sweatshops that produce many of the elegant garments Italy sells
   abroad. It imports arms from eastern Europe and exports them to Basque
   guerrillas. Its various clans launder money through businesses
   scattered from Taiwan to Brno, from Miami Beach, Florida, to Five
   Dock, New South Wales.

   Mr Saviano believes in smelling "the hot breath of reality". By
   getting to the scene of killings before the police have a chance to
   clear away the gore, by riding his scooter for hours round the
   open-air drug supermarket in Secondigliano, even talking to young
   Camorra recruits, he has produced one of the most enthralling and
   disturbing books written on organised crime. He takes his readers to a
   world where teenage gangsters are inducted by being shot at in
   bulletproof vests; where the female bodyguards of a woman mobster wear
   sunglasses and T-shirts of the same yellow as Uma Thurman's outfit in
   the film "Kill Bill". He describes the "submarines"--so-called because
   of their invisibility--who run the Camorra's extensive welfare system.
   And he records a telephone conversation in which two mobsters calmly
   discuss the date for a torture session.

   It is as close to the Camorra as most readers will want to get. By
   going there himself, Mr Saviano has written a book that has so far
   sold 750,000 copies in Italy alone. He has also earned himself death
   threats and a round-the-clock police escort. Like a lot of young
   Italians (he is 28) brought up on an intellectual diet of Catholicism
   and Marxism, he sees liberalism as more of a threat than an
   opportunity. "The logic of criminal business coincides with the most
   aggressive neoliberalism," he claims. But it doesn't. Liberalism
   aspires to free competition; gangsters build cartels.

   Occasionally, too, Mr Saviano's passion can lead him to assertions
   that are more convenient than proven. He claims primacy for the
   Camorra among Italy's five Mafias. Few policemen or prosecutors would
   concur; most believe that the Calabrian version is even more
   dangerous. The author's style is a little rich for easy digestion and
   the translation is over-literal.

   But the great value of "Gomorrah" is to highlight two points: the
   power and wealth that southern Italy's Mafias have accumulated in
   recent years, and the fact that their globalisation makes them an
   issue of concern for us all. His description of the effects of gang
   war on ordinary people ("Women stop wearing high heels--too hard to
   run in them") is masterly. His final chapter, set in the apocalyptic
   wilderness of the Camorra's smouldering waste dumps, is inspired--and
   prescient, as the garbage crisis in Naples unfolds.
   Gomorrah: A Personal Journey into the Violent International Empire of
   Naples' Organized Crime System.
   By Roberto Saviano. Translated by Virginia Jewiss.
   Farrar, Straus and Giroux; 320 pages; $25.
   Macmillan; 16.99


   Vladimir Putin did not rig the ballot to win control of parliament,
   but to assert his power over the Kremlin's warring factions

                                                                       AP

                                     AP


   NOTHING was left to chance in Russia's parliamentary election. As
   polling stations closed on December 2nd, large lorries with military
   and riot police surrounded Moscow's main squares. There was no need
   for them: the city was quiet and nobody was protesting. Nor was there
   any need for the "tourist" buses ferrying voters from far-flung
   regions to cast multiple ballots in one polling station after another.
   "We have been going around polling stations since lunch time,"
   grumbled one man, "and they have not paid us yet."

   President Vladimir Putin's United Russia party would have won anyway.
   The victory it secured, 64% of the vote, was in line with the
   predictions of independent opinion polls. Yet the entire machinery of
   the authoritarian state--including courts, prosecutors, media and
   security agencies--was pressed into service to maximise the turnout.
   It was particularly high in Chechnya and Ingushetia--the most troubled
   North Caucasus republics--where 99% of residents voted for United
   Russia. "It is an interesting result," said Dmitry Peskov, a Kremlin
   spokesman, "but we have no reason to doubt it." Many Western leaders
   thought otherwise. The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said that
   "measured by our standards, it was neither a free, fair nor democratic
   election."

   By putting himself on the United Russia party list, Mr Putin turned
   the election into a referendum on his own popularity--odd, given that
   his rating is already close to 80%. So why so much nervousness and
   what was Mr Putin trying to prove? Plainly, he wants to retain a firm
   grip on power after the expiry of his second term in office (by the
   constitution his last stint) in three months' time. Yet the simplest
   way to achieve this would have been to change the constitution a year
   ago to allow him to stay on. Respect for the law has never been Mr
   Putin's strongest point.

   Indeed, it is widely believed that some, including Igor Sechin, the
   deputy chief of staff in the Kremlin and the informal leader of the
   siloviki, the clan of former KGB men, urged him to make such a change.
   With little prodding, parliament would have amended the constitution
   and two-thirds of the country would have supported it. The West, after
   some grumbling, would have come to terms with it.

   Deciphering Mr Putin's real motives is a murky business, as much a
   matter of psychoanalysis as of political interpretation. It is
   possible that until recently Mr Putin genuinely wanted to leave the
   Kremlin and become an international figure bathing in luxury and
   respect. Staying on might have turned him into a hostage to those
   seeking to protect their financial interests. As one Yeltsin-era
   oligarch put it: "You stay for the third term--you may never leave."

   If so, why the change of heart? The answer almost certainly lies in
   the ever more vicious--and open--rivalry among the Kremlin's political
   clans. Perhaps Mr Putin upset so many rich and powerful people that
   the prospect of losing control over the transition of power may simply
   have been too dangerous for his inner circle, and for himself. For all
   his talk about foreign threats and domestic enemies, what Mr Putin
   really fears is his entourage and a war among the clans. Winston
   Churchill once described the Kremlin's political tussles as being like
   a fight among bulldogs under a carpet: outsiders hear plenty of
   growling but have few clues about the victor's identity until it
   emerges.

   Consider the latest strange noises from beneath the carpet. Two months
   before the election, a fight broke out among Mr Putin's men, resulting
   in the arrest of a general from a drugs-fighting agency accused of
   tapping the phones of the Federal Security Service (FSB). The arrest
   prompted an article from the general's boss, Viktor Cherkesov, one of
   Mr Putin's close allies, warning of the fatal danger of a feud within
   the security agencies, "a war in which there can be no winners".

   A few weeks later, the deputy finance minister, Sergei Storchak, was
   arrested on embezzlement charges. Kremlinologists are confident that
   the arrest was aimed at Alexei Kudrin, the liberal finance minister,
   recently elevated by Mr Putin. Mr Kudrin's plea to see his deputy and
   let him out on bail was ignored.

   Then, just two days before the election, a page-long interview was
   published in a mainstream business newspaper, Kommersant. In it, a
   fund manager, Oleg Shvartsman, claimed that his $3.2 billion fund was
   "closely connected" to the Kremlin's administration and security
   services. He talked of a "velvet reprivatisation" which involved
   "voluntary-coercive" methods. He told Kommersant he reported
   indirectly to Mr Sechin, who also chairs the Rosneft oil company. Mr
   Shvartsman later said his words had been distorted, but the newspaper
   stands by its story.

   Some say the candid interview was aimed at Mr Sechin; others suggest
   it was his own warning "salvo". Either way, it was serious enough for
   the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to pull out of
   creating a Russian venture-capital fund with Mr Shvartsman. Anatoly
   Chubais, the powerful head of the electricity monopoly, said that
   "intentionally or not, Mr Shvartsman told the truth".

   Caught in his own system, Mr Putin seems to have decided he could not
   rely on any of the factions. All he could do, says Lilia Shevtsova,
   senior associate at the Carnegie Moscow Centre, was to appeal directly
   to the nation. This is why he turned the parliamentary election into a
   display of his own power. It is not the Russian people, or the outside
   world, who needed convincing of his strength, but his own elites.
   Whether they heed Mr Putin will become clear in the next few weeks,
   when he names his chosen successor.


   There may be an election in September, but it might not solve any
   problems


   FOR a man trapped in a political crisis, Viktor Yushchenko, the
   president of Ukraine, seems calm, almost philosophical. But then
   political crises have become the norm in Ukrainian politics ever since
   he was swept to power after the "orange revolution" in 2004-05.

   One outcome then was a political deal to transfer much presidential
   power to the parliament. That deal lies behind the struggle that
   culminated in Mr Yushchenko's decree in April dissolving parliament
   and calling a fresh election. Mr Yushchenko says he had no choice but
   to act after Viktor Yanukovich, whom he defeated in 2004 but who
   returned as prime minister two years later, had used "bribery and
   pressure" to amass an illegitimately big majority in parliament.
   "[They] thought it would be possible to violate the constitution and
   establish a majority in a non-constitutional way, but that no
   dissolution of parliament would follow. That was a mistake," says Mr
   Yushchenko. The prime minister's camp retort that the president has
   exceeded his powers.

   Both sides appealed to the courts. Legalistic arguments brought them
   to the brink of violence last week after Mr Yushchenko sacked the
   prosecutor-general and tried to consolidate his grip on the security
   services. Mr Yanukovich, who has authority over the police, ordered
   armed commandos to restore order. Yet the tussle between two branches
   of the security services had a sobering effect on both men. "Both
   sides got scared, not even about the consequences of a potentially
   violent clash, but by the very fact that it could take place," says
   Petro Poroshenko, an ally of the president.

   In the small hours of May 27th, Mr Yanukovich and Mr Yushchenko
   declared a truce. They agreed to hold an election on September 30th.
   But this truce was followed by more parliamentary squabbling and
   prevarication. The deadline for agreeing a September election came and
   went, the fate of the prosecutor-general was undecided and the
   interior minister, an ally of Mr Yanukovich, reportedly had a heart
   attack. Even if the election goes ahead in September, it is unlikely
   to change the political constellation in Ukraine enough to resolve the
   country's underlying divisions.

   So far, at least, the political crisis in Ukraine has remained only
   that. The people who three years ago gathered on Kiev's Independence
   Square to support the orange revolution are now, like Mr Yushchenko
   himself, resigned and philosophical about what they regard as a
   political circus. The bigger concern is no longer a violent
   counter-revolution: it is that all the political parties will forfeit
   the trust of their people.


   The euro prepares to take in Malta and Cyprus


   "EVER since the 11th century, when the Arabs were ejected, Malta has
   looked to the north," says its central-bank governor, Michael Bonello.
   On July 10th the European Union's smallest member took its biggest
   step north since its entry three years ago. It received approval from
   EU finance ministers to join the euro next January, along with Cyprus,
   taking membership up to 15.

   "For a trading nation like ours, it is one headache less," says Mr
   Bonello. Malta does three-quarters of its trade with the EU.
   Membership of the euro eliminates the cost of swapping into and out of
   a currency used nowhere but a small Mediterranean island. It will help
   tourists from the euro area and the growing number of overseas firms
   drawn by Malta's sunny climate and well-educated, English-speaking
   workforce.

   An even better reason for joining the euro is what Malta had to do to
   qualify. It is a textbook case of the beneficial effects of meeting
   the entry criteria. Three years ago, Malta's public debt was almost
   75% of GDP and its budget deficit nearly 5%. To qualify for
   membership, Lawrence Gonzi's centre-right government imposed austerity
   measures that would have been unthinkable without the lure of euro
   entry.

   British colonial rule, which ended in 1964, left the islanders with a
   large public sector, a generous welfare state and a pervasive
   jobs-for-life, state-will-provide outlook. Yet in recent years the
   workforce at the Valletta docks, once the hub of Malta's economy, has
   been cut by 3,000. The island's loss-making national shipping line has
   been closed, and its telecoms firm and airport privatised. The
   government has frozen public employment and wrung from the unions a
   six-year deal on public-sector wages.

   As the opposition Malta Labour Party (MLP) stresses, the government
   has also had to raise taxes. Alfred Sant, the MLP leader, has been
   iffy about joining the euro, as he was about the EU, and complains
   that "they promised the moon and stars. But it has been a hard slog."
   The ruling Nationalists are five points behind in the polls, and have
   lost every local election for four years. Yet Mr Gonzi is optimistic
   that his reforms will bear fruit before he faces re-election: "We are
   reaping the benefits and I believe people are seeing that." GDP growth
   in the first quarter was a perky 3.5% (at an annual rate). The
   government cut the tax burden in its 2007 budget. Unemployment is the
   lowest in 12 years.

   Still, it is with a rueful smile that Mr Gonzi quotes his Luxembourg
   counterpart, Jean-Claude Juncker: "Every finance minister knows what
   to do. But then no one knows how to win the next election." Malta's is
   due next year.


   In the final paragraph of our [3]story on Ukraine last week, the
   parties got jumbled up. Our Ukraine is Viktor Yushchenko's, the Party
   of the Regions is Viktor Yanukovich's.


   Russia's opposition is feeble, floundering and fading 


   AT A recent gathering of Other Russia, a loose coalition of liberals,
   nationalists and communists who oppose President Vladimir Putin, a
   pro-Kremlin youth group lit candles and played a funeral march. The
   stunt cut close to the bone.

   Russia's opposition may not yet be dead, but it is in a deep coma. The
   Kremlin has hollowed out politics by rigging rules on parties and
   elections. It has made it hard for the opposition to put its case on
   television and sent truncheon-wielding police to dispel protesters.
   But infighting, lack of ideas and above all low public support have
   done as much to hurt the opposition. Just four months before a
   parliamentary election and eight months before the presidential poll,
   it is divided, demoralised and lacks a single candidate. Mr Putin's
   approval rating, meanwhile, stands at a majestic, if
   propaganda-fuelled, 85%.

   Some of Other Russia's key figures, including Mikhail Kasyanov, an
   ex-prime minister, and Vladimir Ryzhkov, an independent member of
   parliament, have left after a split with Garry Kasparov, a former
   world chess champion turned activist, largely because of clashing
   ambitions and trivial rows over procedure. Mr Kasparov and Mr
   Kasyanov, who says he wants to be president, argued for seven hours
   just over how to nominate candidates for parliament and the
   presidency. Their bickering has let down those who have risked
   attending Other Russia protests. "The bear has not yet been killed,
   but they're already trying to divide its skin," says Eduard Limonov,
   leader of the banned National Bolshevik Party (see [4]article).

   The two older liberal parties, Yabloko and the Union of Right Forces
   (SPS), have hardly fared better. For years they have failed to
   combine, though both seek votes from the same sort of people; neither
   passed the 5% threshold for representation at the last parliamentary
   election, four years ago. That threshold has now been raised to 7%;
   the latest polls suggest that neither has a chance of getting over it.
   "I'm not scared of the Kremlin, but when you can't agree among your
   own people, it's time to leave politics," says Irina Khakamada, who
   was a candidate for the presidency in 2004.

   But the truth is that both SPS and Yabloko anyway tend to stay within
   bounds set by the Kremlin. SPS was founded and is funded by Anatoly
   Chubais, who runs Russia's state-backed electricity monopoly. He gets
   on well with Mr Putin and relies on his support for electricity
   reform. SPS is not planning to put up its own challenger for the
   presidency (which the Kremlin's candidate will almost certainly win).
   It is even nervous about putting some of its more outspoken activists
   on its list for the parliamentary elections.

   The problem, however, runs deeper. As Boris Nemtsov, one of the SPS's
   more plausible leaders, says: "There is no real demand for a liberal
   opposition in Russian society." Many Russians still associate liberals
   such as Messrs Nemtsov and Chubais with impoverishment, chaos and loss
   of national pride in the 1990s. As members of Boris Yeltsin's
   government, they talked of macroeconomic stability and fiscal
   discipline but never presented policies that resonated among ordinary
   Russians. Some of their oft-maligned reforms have come to fruition,
   ironically, under Mr Putin: helped by high oil prices, the economy is
   growing around 7% a year, the government budget is in surplus,
   inflation has been tamed and debt paid off.

   Few Russians care enough about freedom of speech or human rights to
   risk their improving lifestyle. "The Kremlin has done a deal with the
   Russian people," says Mr Kasyanov. `"Citizens! Enjoy life, travel
   abroad, buy cars, but don't get involved in politics...If your
   patriotic feelings start to stir, we'll satisfy them.'"

   Indeed, whereas the appetite for liberal ideas is weak, nationalism
   remains strong. The Kremlin has set up parties of every hue to split
   and steal the opposition vote, while squashing any party it cannot
   control--and the nationalist simulacrums have fared worryingly well.
   If anyone breaks through the Kremlin's stranglehold, it is unlikely to
   be the liberals.


   The delicate diplomacy over the handling of Kosovo's looming
   independence


   A JOKE has been circulating among diplomats concerned with the
   Balkans. The reply to the question, "what comes after December 10th?"
   is "December 11th." And so it has proved. The 10th was the deadline
   for a mission led by ambassadors from the European Union, America and
   Russia to report to the United Nations on the outcome of negotiations
   between Serbia and its breakaway province of Kosovo. In the event, the
   talks produced so little that the report was handed in early.

   It would be wrong to conclude that nothing has changed after the
   failure of the troika's talks. The end of almost two years of
   diplomatic efforts to find an agreement means that one chapter on
   Kosovo has closed and a new one is opening. A period of turbulence
   lies ahead, and it could even be accompanied by a few spasms of
   violence. But it is almost inconceivable that there will be a general
   return to the Balkan wars of the 1990s.

   Kosovo is the last remaining piece of the former Yugoslav jigsaw. Some
   90% of its 2m people are ethnic Albanians who have long demanded
   independence. Unlike the six countries that have already emerged from
   the old Yugoslavia, Kosovo was not a republic but a province--and one
   with a special historical significance for Serbs. Serbia's present
   leaders have offered maximum autonomy, but Kosovo's Albanians have
   said they will settle for nothing less than independence.

   On December 19th the UN Security Council will take up the question.
   Russia, Serbia's backer, will demand that talks continue. This will be
   rejected by America and the EU countries, who say there is nothing
   left to discuss. At the same time, Western diplomats are working out
   next steps. Serbia is to hold a two-round presidential election in
   January and February. The Kosovo Albanians are being asked to hold off
   declaring independence before then, in a bid to boost the chances of
   the pro-European incumbent, Boris Tadic.

   The diplomats are trying to find a legal cover to replace the UN
   mission in Kosovo with one from the EU. This is proving hard. Kosovo
   is governed by the Security Council's resolution 1244, which says it
   is part of Yugoslavia, to which Serbia is the legal successor state.
   "On this the Serbs and the Russians probably have the law on their
   side," sighs a top European diplomat. "But then this is a political
   decision, not a legal one."

   Once Kosovo declares independence, it is likely to be recognised by
   the Americans, most EU members and many Muslim countries. Serbia may
   try to blockade the new country, apart from the Serb-inhabited part of
   Mitrovica and the north that it already, in effect, runs. So this may
   turn into Europe's newest "frozen conflict". Kosovo exports nothing to
   Serbia, but Serbian exports to Kosovo amount to EUR200m ($280m) a
   year. This trade may be diverted through Montenegro and Macedonia.

   The biggest worry concerns the 50,000 or more Serbs who live in
   enclaves scattered across Kosovo proper. Most, but not all, seem to be
   staying put. If the birth of a new Kosovo is accompanied by violence
   these are the most vulnerable targets.

   As for Serbia, it is at a fork in the road. The EU's leaders may
   soften the blow over Kosovo by waiving a precondition that the country
   co-operate in full with the Yugoslav war-crimes tribunal in The Hague
   before signing a stabilisation and association agreement that would
   bring it large sums of aid. But Vojislav Kostunica, Serbia's prime
   minister, says it is insulting to believe that his country would trade
   Kosovo for eventual EU membership, and even hints that his country
   might refuse to sign the deal. Others close to Mr Tadic retort that
   Serbia has nowhere else to go.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=26753911?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=10110247
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

   Why it is so hard to convict anybody in Italy

   WHEN the long-awaited corruption trial of Silvio Berlusconi, Italy's
   former prime minister, and his former lawyer, David Mills, the
   estranged husband of Tessa Jowell, a British cabinet minister, opened
   on March 13th, the courtroom in Milan was packed. Eighteen judges,
   lawyers and clerks were there, with a trolley full of dog-eared
   folders and documents. Yet in the four hours of legal argument that
   followed, nobody gave even a hint that what they were all doing was
   essentially futile.

   Because of legislation introduced when Mr Berlusconi was prime
   minister, his trial, plus the two appeals allowed under Italian law,
   have to be completed by next February. Otherwise the case
   automatically lapses under Italy's statute of limitations.

   Giuseppe Gennaro, president of the Italian national magistrates'
   association, says that the entire judicial process takes more than
   eight years on average. It is highly unlikely that the case against Mr
   Berlusconi and Mr Mills will be dispatched in 11 months. Trials in
   Italy do not even take place continuously. In this case, the earliest
   day on which the protagonists could attend a second hearing was March
   22nd, but a lawyers' strike is due to take place that day.

   The trial of Mr Berlusconi and Mr Mills, in which the defendants deny
   giving and receiving a $600,000 bribe, offers an insight into the
   surreal world of Italian justice. For the statute of limitations,
   which makes it almost impossible for prosecutors to convict anybody of
   white-collar crimes, is not the only problem.

   After Mr Berlusconi left office, parliament granted a partial amnesty
   that reduced by three years the sentences for any offences committed
   before the statute came into effect (not just those that had already
   been tried). The government said this measure was necessary to clear
   out the jails; some 26,000 prisoners have since been freed. But for
   the first time since 1948, the amnesty was not accompanied by a pardon
   (extinguishing the offences themselves).

   For untried offences, says Mr Gennaro, "this means that it is
   necessary to hold the trial and at the end, in the event of a guilty
   verdict, pass a sentence that cannot be carried out." Since Italian
   justice moves so slowly, most cases before the courts now concern
   offences committed before the amnesty. A report by a body overseeing
   the judiciary concluded last year that over 90% of trials in the next
   five years could be pointless.

   Prosecutors in Italy are answerable only to their immediate superiors.
   Some have grasped the amnesty as a chance to reduce their backlog of
   work by shelving cases that cannot result in a sentence. Others,
   including the prosecutors in the Berlusconi and Mills case, have taken
   the purist view that they should not pick and choose. "They may feel
   they don't have the authority to decide," says Mr Gennaro, the palms
   of his hands upturned in a gesture of resignation. In any event, Mr
   Berlusconi and Mr Mills are in no real danger of going to jail.


   Slow growth, rising taxes: an unhappy combination for Italians 

   THE Italian language has no word for hangover. Yet the Italian people
   began 2008 with a worse one than most. Just before Christmas they
   learnt that in 2006 they were officially overtaken by Spain in GDP per
   head (see chart), which though not unexpected still came as a shock.
   And there is near-universal conviction among ordinary Italians that
   they personally are poorer than they were 12 months ago.

   Yet the statisticians say otherwise, insisting that Italy's GDP grew
   by 1.8% in 2007, even if it is now slowing again (officials also
   dispute the Spanish superacin (surmounting), but that is another
   matter). One explanation can be found in a spacious office in Rome.
   Vincenzo Visco, deputy finance minister in Romano Prodi's centre-left
   government in charge of collecting taxes, had a splendid 2007.
   Government revenues soared by some EUR25 billion ($35 billion), after
   a jump of EUR36 billion in 2006. Part of the rise was due to GDP
   growth; part to measures taken by the previous government of Silvio
   Berlusconi. But an official report to parliament last October
   attributes almost two-fifths of the revenue rise to improved tax
   collection.

   Italians' ability to cling to their earnings and profits is legendary.
   The untaxed (black) economy was reckoned in 2004 to account for a
   sixth of GDP, some 60% above the OECD average. To judge by their
   returns in the same year, Italian lawyers and dentists earned on
   average less than EUR50,000; restaurant owners barely EUR20,000; taxi
   drivers a pitiful EUR11,500. In 2005 only half of Italy's limited
   companies admitted to making any profits at all. Under- and
   non-invoicing to avoid value-added tax (VAT) are common.

   The silver-haired Mr Visco has unleashed a determined campaign to get
   his compatriots to mend their ways. He has stepped up the inspection
   of shops, bars and restaurants; obliged middle-class professionals to
   accept payment by cheque; and curbed the use by firms of offshore
   fiscal havens. He grabbed public attention with an investigation into
   the tax affairs of one of the country's best-known sporting figures,
   Valentino Rossi, a motorcyclist. Most important, he has pushed through
   legislation to allow the finance police and civilian inspectors to
   cross-reference data from different sources, including bank accounts.
   "People now know we know," he says ominously. Last year, it was
   reckoned, more than half the improved tax compliance was "voluntary".

   The effects of Mr Visco's clampdown are evident, even if the cause is
   rarely acknowledged. The cost of eating out has leapt as restaurants
   pass on the full cost of VAT. Lawyers report business deals unwinding
   as people make greater provision for tax. Centre-left politicians fret
   over what the new stringency might do to areas such as Naples, where
   huge swathes of the economy are black. More self-interestedly, they
   worry that much of the opposition's substantial lead in the opinion
   polls may be due to Mr Visco's exactions.

   Well over half of Italy's 40m taxpayers are wage earners and
   pensioners who have their taxes deducted at source. They ought to back
   the new clampdown. Yet many are as hostile as the self-employed and
   employers. This is because, even as it tackles tax evasion, the
   government has increased the overall tax burden. Companies won some
   relief last year with a reduction in corporation tax, but many
   individuals (especially the single and those not owning a home) are
   worse off. Proposals for selective cuts in tax rates have won support
   even from the trade unions.

   Nicola Rossi, a rare liberal in the ruling majority, argues that
   taxpayers are being saddled "to an absolutely unreasonable extent"
   with extra bureaucracy. He wants to see money clawed back from tax
   dodgers spent on cutting tax rates for those who have no option but to
   pay. As it happens, in this he is supported by Mr Visco himself.

   One reason the government finds this hard is made clear in a recent
   study by two economists, Tito Boeri and Pietro Garibaldi. They have
   found that over two-thirds of the extra tax revenues are going towards
   more spending, much of it beyond the control of central government and
   a lot of it used by politicians to dispense patronage and appease
   vested interests. "Until they cut spending, I don't think they'll be
   able to cut taxes," concludes Mr Boeri. Spending has recently been
   rising, "like a train" in Mr Boeri's words, by a steady 2% a year in
   real terms. For the good of the economy, and of the centre-left,
   somebody needs to find the brake soon.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=78925758?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=9431900
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

   The dangers for a president of trying to do too much


   DURING his election campaign, Nicolas Sarkozy promised a rupture with
   the past. But who could have predicted how fast he would junk the
   well-worn traditions of the presidency? On January 8th, in his first
   full press conference, Mr Sarkozy answered a question about his love
   life (his romance with Carla Bruni was "serious", though he would not
   specify wedding plans). By listing a raft of projects--the abolition
   of advertising on state television, an end to the 35-hour week, an
   obligation on companies to boost profit-sharing--he also displayed his
   micro-management style, without raising an eyebrow. Like it or not,
   hyperprsidentialisation is here to stay.

   In the past, a French president would shape the contours of policy and
   take care of diplomacy and defence, leaving the prime minister to toil
   away at details. The rarity of presidential appearances under Franois
   Mitterrand and Jacques Chirac dignified the office and sanctified the
   message. Not in Sarkoland. The prime minister, Franois Fillon, is as
   invisible as his boss is omnipresent--Mr Sarkozy once reportedly
   called him his "assistant". Cabinet ministers are closely supervised
   by advisers at the Elyse. Indeed, Mr Sarkozy sometimes does their
   job: he took over negotiations with the unions on university reform,
   he travelled to Brussels to plead France's case at a finance
   ministers' meeting. Ministers can even be caught short by presidential
   announcements. When Mr Sarkozy said the state would sell another 3% of
   the electricity giant EDF, he took the finance ministry by surprise.
   "Only a very few ministers have real autonomy," says one top official.
   "I've never worked under such a centralised presidency."

   Mr Sarkozy has a taste for plain-talking confrontation and a forceful
   character that may enable him to get deals that others cannot. His
   hyperactive style also fits a strategy to reinvent the presidency and
   break with the stuffy past. "He wants to change the conception of the
   presidency," says an adviser. "To be every day in contact with people
   and their concerns, not just shut up in the palace." Hence a dizzying
   stream of trips, speeches, photo opportunities and meetings with
   ordinary folk.

   Hyperprsidentialisation has its critics. Some fret that Mr Sarkozy is
   undermining the dignity of his office. Even as he has jetted about
   with Ms Bruni, earning from one newspaper the nickname "President
   bling-bling", his ratings have slid. Others complain about the
   concentration of powers. The president, as head of the armed forces
   and with the power to dissolve parliament and change ministers at
   will, is already hugely powerful. Now Mr Sarkozy wants to change the
   constitution to allow the president to address parliament. Laurent
   Joffrin, editor of the left-leaning Libration, this week accused Mr
   Sarkozy of installing "an elective monarchy".

   Yet Mr Sarkozy's planned constitutional reforms include others to make
   parliament a stronger counterweight: rights to oversee presidential
   nominations and authorise long-term military engagements abroad, as
   well as limits on the use of decrees. Nor is Mr Sarkozy the first
   president of the Fifth Republic to treat the office as an executive
   job. Charles de Gaulle, architect of the directly elected presidency,
   once admonished a minister: "Don't refer to the prime minister as the
   head of government. The head of government is me."

   Even so, Mr Sarkozy's approach carries risks. He wants to end the
   "deplorable tradition of...hypocrisy and lies" of past presidents
   about their private lives, but how keen will he be on American-style
   transparency if his romance chills? More important, previous
   presidents have found it handy to dump their prime minister when
   things go wrong. By casting himself in the starring role, Mr Sarkozy
   will have nobody to blame but himself.


   With French support


   IT TAKES a lot for an Englishman to speak French in public. Yet Tony
   Blair, who has made a habit of it, did it again on January 12th,
   delivering a speech in praise of reform and European unity to members
   of France's centre-right ruling party--all in respectable French.
   Commentators argued that only one prize could explain why the former
   British prime minister (and nominally centre-left politician) put
   himself through the ordeal. At the meeting, President Nicolas Sarkozy
   came close to giving explicit backing to Mr Blair to become the
   European Union's first full-time president.

   Under the new Lisbon treaty, the EU's 27 members will be represented
   by a single figure, serving for two-and-a-half years. That replaces
   the system which sees countries take it in turns to chair EU meetings
   for six months. Hailing his guest as one of Europe's "great men", Mr
   Sarkozy called on Europe to "aim high", and not settle for a
   compromise figure. That certainly sounded like an endorsement, though
   Mr Sarkozy has also praised Jean-Claude Juncker, the chain-smoking
   Luxembourg prime minister, and dark master of the EU's arts.

   Mr Sarkozy hopes the new chief will be chosen late this year, when
   France holds the club's rotating presidency. But that can happen only
   if the treaty is ratified by all 27 members during 2008: a long shot.
   Just as likely, the president will be chosen in a horse-trading
   marathon in 2009, which will also pick a head of the European
   Commission (roughly, the EU's bureaucracy) and a new foreign-policy
   chief.

   Would Mr Blair get the job? Iraq counts against him. So does Britain's
   semi-detached EU status: it remains outside the single currency and
   has multiple opt-outs. Would Mr Blair want the job? Maybe not. A
   tussle looms over who will be the face of the EU abroad, the president
   or foreign-policy chief. If that fight goes the wrong way, the new
   president could languish in Brussels chairing dull summits. More fun
   to tour the world speechifying, in any language.


   The ruling coalition wobbles, but survives for now


   OUTSIDERS often mock Poland's prickly, obstinate prime minister,
   Jaroslaw Kaczynski. But a collapse of his government, followed by
   months of instability, might be worse. An anti-corruption watchdog
   this week named a deputy prime minister, the temperamental farmers'
   leader Andrzej Lepper, in a bribery scandal. Mr Kaczynski promptly
   sacked him (for the second time).

   Mr Lepper, who denies any wrongdoing, threatened to take his party,
   Self-Defence, out of the coalition. That would have meant minority
   rule and perhaps an early election, bogging down Poland's haphazard
   reforms completely. The European Union's most unpredictable member
   would be even harder to handle. But Self-Defence does not want an
   election campaign in which its already pungent reputation for cronyism
   might take centre stage. Fearing a revolt, Mr Lepper apparently backed
   down, suggesting his party may stay in the coalition "conditionally".

   Mr Kaczynski's Law and Justice Party may also want to defuse a row
   with its hardline Catholic supporters before facing voters. Father
   Tadeusz Rydzyk, who runs a highly politicised media empire, recently
   called Mr Kaczynski's sister-in-law a "witch" who deserved
   "euthanasia" because of her support for abortion. That prompted a
   rebuke from her husband, Lech Kaczynski, Jaroslaw's twin brother and
   Poland's president.

   Law and Justice's embrace has proved near-fatal to the other coalition
   party, the nationalist League of Polish Families. It may now do the
   same for Self-Defence. Mr Kaczynski can thus safely go for an early
   election whenever he chooses. But his canny politicking is not matched
   by ability to govern. Attempts at health reform, for example, have
   brought doctors at more than 200 hospitals out on strike. Nurses
   demanding higher wages are camping in tents outside Mr Kaczynski's
   office. They say he has broken election pledges to help losers from
   the post-1989 transition, such as ill-paid public-sector workers.

   The government has also failed to reform public finances, essential if
   Poland is to follow Cyprus and Malta into the euro (see [4]article).
   Its main boasts are reforms in the intelligence services, stronger
   anti-corruption efforts and weeding out communist-era secret-police
   collaborators. These may have been worthwhile, but the government's
   approach has been highly partisan, even vengeful. Public
   administration is lamentably backward.

   As the political system fails to reflect Poles' exasperation with
   their poor quality of life, many are voting with their feet. Some 2m
   have gone abroad since Poland joined the EU, and a recent survey found
   another 3m planning to do the same. This is aggravating labour
   shortages that may undermine the country's competitiveness.

   Poland's foreign policy is also being mismanaged. At the recent EU
   summit, Mr Kaczynski won a delay on new voting rules that will reduce
   Poland's weight. But the victory was marred by his graceless approach,
   using Poland's wartime suffering at German hands as a bargaining chip.
   It was Germany that pushed hardest for Poland's EU entry. Now German
   diplomats in Warsaw say relations cannot improve so long as the
   Kaczynskis are in power.

   On the foreign front, things may get worse still. Law and Justice has
   just suspended its most sensible foreign-affairs expert, Pawel
   Zalewski. A deputy leader of the party, he dared to quiz the
   lightweight foreign minister, Anna Fotyga, at a parliamentary hearing.
   The disconnection between Poland and its EU partners was underlined
   when a Polish candidate to run the IMF was brushed aside. Both Poland
   and the EU would like to see a strong, dependable government in
   Warsaw. It may be some time before they get one.


   The star couple at the top of the Socialist Party splits up


   THE public interest stops at the bedroom door. That has long been an
   unspoken rule of French politics. President Franois Mitterrand kept
   his mistress and their daughter hidden from voters for years. But what
   happens when both halves of a couple are in the public eye? That was
   the dilemma for Sgolne Royal, defeated Socialist presidential
   candidate, whose partner, Franois Hollande, happens to be the
   Socialist Party's boss.

   This week, in a highly unFrench declaration, Ms Royal confirmed
   rumours that have circulated for some time: she and Mr Hollande have
   separated. "I suggested to Franois that he should live his life
   separately, and he accepted," she told French radio. "We no longer
   live together." As recently as March, she had written that "yes, we
   are still together and yes, we still live together." Was it all a
   charade? Not at all, she insists: she put her troubles to one side
   during the campaign, to protect the pair's four children.

   The French are torn about the new confessional tendencies of their
   political leaders. Despite the creeping invasion of American-style
   celebrity politics, the media no longer discuss President Nicolas
   Sarkozy's relationship with his wife, Ccilia. This week the news of
   Ms Royal's separation occupied--uncharacteristically--the entire front
   page of Le Parisien, a mid-market daily, on a day otherwise dominated
   by the country's parliamentary elections.

   Have the French embraced what they call the peopleisation of political
   life? In a poll this week, 83% said that Ms Royal's announcement was
   not useful information but "a strictly private affair". Ms Royal's
   decision was motivated less by media pressure to come clean, as might
   have happened in tabloid-laden Britain, than by the need to clarify an
   awkward dynamic at the heart of the Socialist Party--in particular her
   desire to take the top job from Mr Hollande.

   Mr Hollande says he will step down as Socialist leader in 2008. Ms
   Royal plans to stand for the post. Amid the recrimination after her
   presidential defeat, the Socialist Party was growing impatient. "I've
   had enough of political life turning around the life of a couple,"
   said Manuel Valls, a rising star in the party. With the news of the
   pair's split, the air has cleared for the succession battle, and
   private lives are safe again--at least for now. A German media group,
   Axel Springer, has announced that it will launch a French version of
   Bild, its German tabloid, by the end of the year.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=38299153?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=10472229
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?
   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=54530851?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=10488541
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?
   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=41079620?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=8700316
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   Romano Prodi's centre-left coalition is back in office, but its
   chances of lasting for long are not great

   BY THE time the Senate, parliament's upper house, voted on the future
   of Romano Prodi's government on February 28th, he seemed like a figure
   from a computer game, pressing on relentlessly although blown up and
   with the way ahead strewn with traps and ambushes. In the event his
   centre-left government survived by 162 votes to 157, giving it two
   more votes than the 160 it needed. But few Italians (barely a fifth,
   said a poll in Corriere della Sera) expect it to see out its five-year
   term.

   The government was plunged into crisis when it failed to muster an
   outright majority in the Senate for its foreign policy. Mr Prodi duly
   resigned, but after consultations with political leaders President
   Giorgio Napolitano sent him back to parliament to seek endorsements
   from both chambers. The Senate is the one that matters: in the lower
   house, the government has a comfortable majority.

   To onlookers, the whole exercise may seem futile: just another example
   of the histrionic politicking that distracts Italy's leaders and helps
   to explain why the country finds it so difficult to reform. The
   episode had real effects, even so.

   Most obviously, it shattered Mr Prodi's blithe optimism that he could
   survive indefinitely without a proper working majority in the upper
   house. After the defection last September of one centre-left senator,
   he had the same number of elected senators in the upper house as the
   opposition leader, Silvio Berlusconi. He could pass legislation thanks
   only to the leftish sympathies of most of Italy's seven (unelected)
   life senators. Sooner or later, he was bound to be tripped up on an
   issue of conscience.

   In fact it was two senators from the radical left who mutinied over
   Italy's military presence in Afghanistan; two life senators
   unexpectedly abstained. One was a veteran Christian Democratic prime
   minister, Giulio Andreotti, whose decision may have reflected Vatican
   distaste for a bill to give legal rights to unmarried couples,
   including gays.

   Another effect of the drama was to highlight the need for a new
   electoral law to replace the system of proportional representation
   that was imposed by Mr Berlusconi's government shortly before it was
   ousted in April 2006. At the time critics said the new system was
   meant to make Italy ungovernable by creating the stalemate in the
   Senate that it duly produced. This week Mr Prodi said a new electoral
   law was an "absolute priority". Domenico Siniscalco, who was briefly
   finance minister under Mr Berlusconi, thinks that Italy cannot be
   reformed without a new electoral system to weaken the blackmailing
   power of small parties. But Mr Berlusconi has said this is a "false
   problem"- and smaller parties will also resist any change.

   The brief crisis has shocked the centre-left into unity, at least for
   now. On February 22nd, leaders of the nine parties in Mr Prodi's
   coalition issued a list of 12 "non-negotiable" points. They included
   respect for Italy's international commitments and undertakings to
   press ahead with two controversial plans--a high-speed rail link with
   France and a programme of liberalisation. The list was notable for
   omitting rights for unwed couples.

   As well as pleasing Mr Andreotti, that made easier one more change:
   the defection of a centre-right senator, Marco Follini, one of two
   opposition rebels. Although a former leader of the conservative Union
   of Christian Democrats (UDC) and briefly a deputy prime minister under
   Mr Berlusconi, he had been disrupting the centre-right with his dream
   of a coalition of the centre as the only solution to Italy's problems.
   Mr Follini's departure has prompted speculation of a wider, maybe
   Vatican-inspired, move to give the government support from the UDC, or
   at least from some of its legislators.

   Mr Prodi's speech to the Senate showed that he is alive to this
   possibility. One commentator called it a "formidable example of
   Christian Democrat oratory". He managed not to make any reference to
   the law on unmarried couples. He hinted at better pensions for the
   worst-off, lower taxes for home-owners and restrictions on short-term
   employment, all policies that would please the UDC.

   Whatever else they may achieve, though, Mr Prodi's overtures to the
   right may not improve the chances of further liberalisation in Italy.
   Mr Follini himself may sympathise with the liberal cause, but lots of
   his former colleagues are diehard corporatists who, like him, get most
   of their votes from the south, where many households depend either on
   welfare or on public-sector employment.

   Besides, although an influx of conservative Christian Democrats would
   make the governing majority bigger, it would also make it more
   discordant. The UDC stretches a long way from the centre. Its members
   include Rocco Buttiglione, whose reactionary views on gays and single
   mothers cost him a seat in the European Commission in 2004.

   Even for the present centre-left coalition, the way ahead looks
   testing. It could easily split if, for example, the government
   abandons the unwed-couples bill. Parliament has yet to approve renewed
   funding for Italy's contingent in Afghanistan and as many as three
   senators could abstain on that. And the coalition might also rip
   itself apart over pensions, the next test of its ability to reform.

   Proposals leaked this week showed that the government was preparing to
   retreat from a pension reform introduced by the Berlusconi
   administration. This responded to Italy's escalating welfare bill and
   to a central problem of its economy, which is that too few older
   people are actively employed. The reform, due to take effect next
   year, would have stopped workers from retiring before the age of 60.
   The new plan will allow them to go at 58.

   Yet instead of welcoming this backsliding from reform, union leaders
   expressed outrage over another idea: to ensure that pension costs are
   not increased inexorably by rising life expectancy. A link between
   pensionable age and life expectancy was due to have been made two
   years ago in line with a law passed in 1995. One union leader has now
   proposed a general strike to stop it. Poor Italy.


   The new Polish government may find it hard to deliver on its promises

   SUSPICION and confrontation were the hallmarks of Poland's previous
   government. The new centre-right Civic Platform marks a big change.
   Attacks on the government by Law and Justice, the former ruling party
   led by Jaroslaw Kaczynski, have been met with quiet steel. Civic
   Platform's amicable negotiations with its junior partner, the
   Peasants' Party, contrast with Mr Kaczynski's suspension of three
   colleagues for advocating more open discussion in his party.

   The new prime minister, Donald Tusk, is mild-mannered but not overly
   meek. His competent cabinet includes two Poles with strong foreign
   links. Jacek Rostowski, a graduate of the London School of Economics,
   is finance minister. Radek Sikorski, an Oxford graduate who worked at
   the American Enterprise Institute before serving as defence minister
   in Mr Kaczynski's government and then defecting to Civic Platform, is
   foreign minister. The Peasants' Party leader, Waldemar Pawlak, an
   internet enthusiast, will be deputy prime minister. His party is more
   amenable than the extreme populist junior partners in Mr Kaczynski's
   coalition.

   Mr Rostowski faces the biggest challenge: keeping the economy on
   track, if it falters in 2008 after growing by 6.5% this year.
   Public-finance reform is pressing; so are wage demands by teachers and
   health-care workers, stoked by labour shortages. It may be easier for
   Mr Sikorski to patch up relations with Poland's neighbours and
   European partners, bruised by the previous government's eccentric
   diplomacy. But the new government is more dubious about America's
   planned missile-defence system.

   Meeting voters' inflated expectations on road-building, housing and
   rural development will be hard. So will dealing with the boisterously
   disruptive tactics of Law and Justice, which raised so many procedural
   objections that it forced the first post-election session of
   parliament into recess. It is now boycotting the intelligence
   committee in an argument over its composition.

   But the deepest problem may be the relationship between Mr Tusk and
   President Lech Kaczynski, twin brother of Jaroslaw. The president has
   made clear that he considers Mr Tusk a second-best choice, blaming a
   hostile media for depriving his brother of a second term. The
   constitution obliges the heads of state and government to co-operate
   closely, particularly on foreign policy and defence. It seems that the
   president is determined to use all the means at his disposal to
   promote his own vision of domestic and foreign policy.

   Poland's new government has catching up to do after the past two
   years. It will also need some luck. Its many well-wishers abroad can
   only hope it gets it.


   The Polish government realises it needs a foreign policy, but doesn't
   yet have one


   A FLURRY of interest in the outside world might not seem odd in one of
   the European Union's bigger members. But when it comes from Poland's
   president and prime minister, the twin brothers Lech and Jaroslaw
   Kaczynski, it is a pleasant surprise. The prime minister, Jaroslaw,
   visited the Netherlands and Denmark last week. Angela Merkel, the
   German chancellor, visited Poland, meeting the prime minister,
   speaking at Warsaw University and spending a day at President Lech's
   house on the Baltic coast.

   This almost counts as a love-in. Polish foreign policy has been
   introverted, incompetent and marked by hostility to Germany since the
   Kaczynskis came to power in late 2005. Ms Merkel showed the value she
   places on improving German-Polish relations by bringing her husband,
   who rarely accompanies her abroad. Her main aim was to persuade the
   Poles to drop their resistance to this weekend's Berlin declaration
   celebrating the EU's 50th birthday, and to be more open to reviving
   the EU constitution. Poland had held out for a mention of God and the
   Christian tradition, but it has given up--though it will still be
   awkward on the constitution.

   Ms Merkel seems to have persuaded the Poles that she is a sympathetic
   friend, not a revanchist and bullying neighbour. Her experience under
   totalitarian rule in communist East Germany helps. But she has also
   showed sensitivity to Polish concerns. The anti-ballistic missiles
   that America wants to base in Poland did not spoil her talks and her
   seaside stroll. The Polish president also avoided the knee-jerk issues
   of German atrocities against Poland. He made no mention of plans by a
   group of Germans deported from Poland after the war to open a museum.
   Nor did he whinge on about the planned pipeline that will pump Russian
   gas directly to Germany under the Baltic Sea.

   Closer ties with Germany are welcome, but not enough. The Polish
   government's foreign-policy woes stem largely from prejudice and
   ignorance. Not only are the Kaczynskis untravelled and monoglot; they
   distrust cosmopolitans. They have sacked or intimidated any advisers
   or colleagues who showed too much knowledge of, or interest in, the
   abroad. One result is more clashes with the EU, some unnecessary,
   others badly managed.

   The Kaczynskis are sceptical about the euro, and so of the reforms
   needed to join it. Their method of communication has annoyed the EU:
   the economics commissioner, Joaqun Almunia, recently complained that
   the Polish government simply didn't inform him of its economic policy.
   One reason is that finance ministers change with alarming frequency
   (the incumbent is the fourth in 18 months). The foreign minister is a
   close Kaczynski chum, who sees her job as relaying his views bluntly,
   not building diplomatic alliances.

   Poland's image is worsened by the antics of the League of Polish
   Families, a minority coalition partner. One of its leading lights is
   campaigning against the teaching of evolution in schools. The party
   wants to ban abortion in Europe. This week the European Court of Human
   Rights awarded a Polish woman damages of EUR25,000 ($33,250) for being
   refused an abortion that could have saved her eyesight. The party
   leader, Roman Giertych, who is education minister and deputy prime
   minister, wants to restrict what he terms the "promotion" of
   homosexuality in Polish schools. To secular liberals in the rest of
   Europe, all this makes Poland seem a bastion of medieval barbarism.

   Other issues are more substantive. The Poles are being taken to the
   European Court for building a motorway through a conservation area.
   Their insistence on sticking to the voting system agreed in the Nice
   treaty in 2001, rather than the new one in the draft EU constitution,
   grates in Brussels--and Berlin. But Poland's leaders seem to have
   realised that a country wishing to have any influence needs a
   functioning foreign policy. All they must do now is formulate one.


   The government's crude ways may be worse than the sins it seeks to
   extirpate


   THOSE who predicted that the Polish government would drop the
   dramatics and fade gracefully from view in the run-up to a general
   election next month have been proved spectacularly wrong. A
   cloak-and-dagger operation at the end of August led to the arrests of
   a former interior minister, a former chief of police and the chief
   executive of Poland's largest insurer. They were made, dramatically
   enough, by balaclava-clad special forces.

   The evidence for the arrests suggested that Janusz Kaczmarek, who
   until his dismissal as interior minister in early August was a close
   ally of President Lech Kaczynski, was involved in a leak that led to
   the failure of a sting operation by a state anti-corruption agency.
   The three men have now been released on bail, but Jaromir Netzel,
   chief executive of the PZU insurance company, has been sacked. A
   warrant has been issued for a rich businessmen, Ryszard Krauze, who is
   abroad.

   Many questions remain. One is why the former chief of police, Konrad
   Kornatowski, was detained just before he gave evidence to a
   parliamentary committee. He might yet confirm claims by Mr Kaczmarek
   that political rivals and critical journalists were illegally put
   under surveillance on the orders of the justice minister, Zbigniew
   Ziobro. Another concern is that the office of prosecutor-general is
   part of the justice portfolio. Critics say Mr Ziobro, who is close to
   the prime minister, Jaroslaw Kaczynski, is too partisan for the role.

   There are broader worries about the undermining of judicial
   independence since the Kaczynski brothers' party, Law and Justice,
   took power two years ago. They set up the state anti-corruption
   agency, whose operation to expose the dealings of a coalition partner
   has led to demands for a parliamentary investigation. Roman Giertych,
   leader of another former coalition party, accuses Law and Justice of
   employing "Soviet methods". The prime minister retorts that the
   government has been acting "like a good surgeon" cutting out "diseased
   tissue".

   The Kaczynskis may have been right to try to rid Polish public life of
   post-communist sleaze. But they have failed, so far, to come up with
   evidence for the existence of an all-encompassing network of corrupt
   businesspeople, politicians and communist spooks, the uklad, which
   they say has ruled Poland since 1989. And their methods have sometimes
   smacked more of a witch-hunt than of due process.

   The latest arrests may have had a political motive. The governor's
   insistence that protection of the rich and powerful has ended
   resonates with voters. For the first time in a year, a poll has just
   put Law and Justice ahead of the largest opposition party, the liberal
   Civic Platform. This puts the opposition in an awkward dilemma:
   whether to vote to keep a government it is eager to oust, or to back
   an early election it now risks losing.

   An early election and a change of government still look the most
   likely outcome of all this. But Law and Justice could yet ride back
   into power on a wave of populist support. Democracy in eastern Europe
   remains a learning process. But Poland's ruling party may not prove to
   have been the best of teachers.


   Why Christians feel under threat in today's Turkey

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

   THIS has been a bad year for Orhan Picaklar. As a Protestant
   missionary in Samsun, on the Black Sea, he has had death threats and
   his church has been repeatedly stoned. Local newspapers called him a
   foreign agent. A group of youths tried to kidnap him as he was driving
   home. His pleas for police protection have gone unheeded.

   Mr Picaklar is not alone. All over Turkey, Christians are under
   attack. In January Hrant Dink, an ethnic Armenian newspaper editor,
   was shot dead in Istanbul by a teenager who said he had "insulted
   Turkishness". In April two Turks and a German, all evangelists, were
   murdered in Malatya. Their killers bound and tortured them before
   slitting their throats. In December an Italian Catholic priest was
   knifed by a teenager in Izmir. Another Italian priest was shot dead in
   Trabzon in 2006.

   Many blame the attacks on a new ultra-nationalism, tinged with Islamic
   militancy, that has swept across Turkey. Unemployed teenagers in the
   Black Sea region seem especially prone to it. "The plight of
   Christians is critical," says Husnu Ondul, president of the
   Ankara-based Turkish Human Rights Association. Like many others, he
   believes that the "deep state", comprising a few judges, army officers
   and security officials who need enemies to justify their grip on
   power, is behind the attacks.

   That may seem far-fetched. Yet evidence leaked to the media in the
   Dink and Malatya cases points to collusion between the perpetrators
   and rogue elements in the police and the army. It also suggests that
   the Istanbul police were tipped off about Mr Dink's murder a year
   before it was carried out. "So why did the Istanbul police do nothing
   to prevent it?" wonders Ergin Cinmen, a lawyer for the Dink family.

   Respecting the religious freedom of non-Muslims is essential to
   Turkey's hopes of joining the European Union. Laws against Christians
   repairing their churches have been relaxed. Overriding objections from
   pious constituents, the ruling Justice and Development (AK) party has
   just restored an ancient Armenian church in eastern Turkey. School
   textbooks are being purged of an anti-Western bias.

   Yet many Christian grievances remain. The prime minister, Recep Tayyip
   Erdogan, resists calls to reopen the Greek Orthodox Halki seminary on
   Heybeli island off Istanbul, shut down in 1971. Turkey refuses to
   recognise the ecumenical title of the Greek Orthodox patriarch,
   Bartholomew I, the spiritual leader of over 200m Orthodox Christians.
   The patriarch, a loyal Turkish citizen, has lobbied hard for Turkey's
   EU membership. But this has only reinforced suspicions among
   ultra-nationalist detractors, who accuse him of trying to
   "Christianise" Turkey and wanting a Vatican-style state in the heart
   of Istanbul.

   Never mind that the Greek Orthodox church in Istanbul has dwindled to
   4,000 souls, many of them too old to follow their children abroad. Nor
   that the patriarch must under Turkish law be a Turkish citizen, a rule
   which is making it difficult to find a successor to Bartholomew I.
   "They [ie, the Turks] apparently won't regard the conquest of
   Constantinople as complete until the patriarchate ceases to exist and
   all Christians have been frightened away," suggests one restorer of
   icons in Istanbul.

   The government has yet to approve a draft bill to help non-Muslims
   recover thousands of properties that have been confiscated by the
   state and either sold or left to decay. The Aya Yorgi church in
   Istanbul's Edirnekapi district, which was badly damaged in an
   earthquake, is one sad example. Its walls are cracked, its roof is
   leaking; a marble angel lies in pieces on the floor. "All we ask is to
   be permitted to rescue our church, but we cannot hammer a single
   nail," complains Bishop Dionysios, a Greek Orthodox prelate who still
   conducts services there.

   Many Christians concede that AK has treated them better than its
   secular predecessors did. They blame the deep state for their recent
   troubles. But the excuse of the deep state's power is wearing thin
   after AK's big victory in July's general election. "With such a strong
   mandate, the government's failure to meet our demands can only mean
   one thing, that the deep state is still in charge," says a Christian
   priest. Or perhaps that AK believes in religious freedom for Muslims,
   but not Christians.




   The grand coalition's junior partner, the Social Democrats, improve
   their prospects--at the expense of the government's


   KURT BECK has been chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SPD), the
   junior partner in Germany's grand coalition government, since May
   2006. But only now has the party crowned him. Colleagues asked if his
   homespun ways and rustic accent befitted the leader of Germany's
   oldest political party. The SPD's modernising ministers paid him
   little heed. Yet at the party convention in Hamburg between October
   26th and 28th, over 95% of delegates voted to re-elect him. Newspapers
   dubbed him "King Kurt".

   Mr Beck has won the accolade by pulling the SPD out of a tailspin. As
   the party responsible for the unpopular Agenda 2010 reforms of
   Chancellor Gerhard Schrder, and now as part of a coalition with the
   Christian Democratic Union (CDU), which portrays compassionate social
   policies as its own, the SPD has been haemorrhaging members and votes
   for years. Mr Beck has given it a glimpse of redemption by proposing
   to pay unemployment benefits to older workers for a longer period, a
   partial rollback of Agenda 2010. Delegates cheered this rediscovery of
   the party's roots; sceptics held their tongues.

   The party's new friskiness promises to make life uncomfortable for
   Angela Merkel, the CDU chancellor. Getting ahead of Mr Beck, the SPD
   has booby-trapped the planned privatisation of the federal railway,
   Deutsche Bahn, endorsed a speed limit on motorways and (with his
   blessing, this time) called for a minimum wage. Its leaders, having
   made up with each other, are warming up for the federal election in
   2009 by laying into Ms Merkel. Her response will be to try to preserve
   her popularity but fend off pressure for policies she sees as
   economically senseless. This is not a recipe for progress with reform.

   On unemployment benefits she is likely to offer conditional surrender.
   Mr Beck's proposal--to extend the payment period from 12 months to 15
   for jobless people over 45 and to 24 months for those over 50--is
   popular. Tax revenues are buoyant, so the government cannot plead
   poverty. Moreover, the CDU has already endorsed a version of the same
   policy. Ms Merkel wants to contain its cost, which could reach EUR2.9
   billion ($4.2 billion), says the Federal Labour Agency (the SPD
   insists it will cost far less). More money for welfare means less for
   investment and tax cuts, or a smaller financial cushion to soften the
   effects of a slowing economy.

   However it is financed, the government will be weakening one of the
   pillars of Mr Schrder's Agenda 2010 reforms, enacted in 2003-05.
   Offering extended unemployment benefits to older workers discourages
   them from seeking work and promotes early retirement, notes Klaus
   Deutsch of DB Research, part of Deutsche Bank. With the shortening of
   the payment period under Agenda 2010, joblessness has fallen by more
   than average among older workers during the economic upswing. That may
   now change.

   In some other areas, the SPD's new assertiveness may produce gridlock,
   not retreat. Deutsche Bahn, which faces a liberalised European market,
   may not issue voting shares to outside investors, the party has
   decided. That could be fatal to its privatisation. The CDU is likely
   to block an economy-wide minimum wage, which would destroy jobs. What
   does not get through is likely to become the stuff of the 2009
   election campaign.

   Is there any point, people may start to wonder, in prolonging the
   grand coalition until then? The odds are that the partners will say
   yes, for reasons of both policy and politics. The common ground
   between the two parties has shrunk, but it has not quite disappeared.
   There is still room to stimulate employment by cutting payroll taxes,
   one of the CDU's pet projects. The coalition may find a formula for
   reforming the inheritance tax. It is working on a second phase of
   federal reform, limiting states' debts and giving them more
   tax-raising powers. Both big parties have made energy efficiency a
   priority.

   The SPD indulged its political appetites in Hamburg; now its ministers
   will return to the hard grind of governance, predicts Richard Stss, a
   political scientist at Berlin's Free University. Germans approve of
   grand coalitions, however uncomfortable they are for the politicians
   involved. Whoever pulls the plug prematurely risks being punished by
   the voters, Mr Stss argues. There is "no question" that the coalition
   will survive until 2009, insists Niels Annen, a member of the SPD's
   left wing.

   But from now onwards the partners' preoccupation will be to seduce as
   broad a swathe of the electorate as they can, which means reaching out
   to the middle as well as cultivating their bases. The notion that the
   SPD has lurched to the left is "outrageous nonsense", says Mr Beck.
   Yes, the party's newly minted basic programme reaffirms democratic
   socialism, but it also endorses "sustainability", of the financial as
   well as the ecological sort. Although the SPD may still want to tweak
   the Agenda 2010 reforms, the basic carrot-and-stick principle behind
   them has not been abandoned, the party insists.

   For now, though, the middle belongs to Ms Merkel. Her approval rating
   is close to 70%. The record of grand coalitions at state level
   suggests that political credit for whatever they achieve goes mainly
   to their senior partners. To oust Ms Merkel from the chancellorship in
   the next election, the SPD would have to win almost 40% of the vote.
   Despite the Beck revival, it is still far from achieving that.

   The main risk to Ms Merkel is that she could lapse into irrelevance.
   Until now she has prospered by showing strength in foreign policy and
   deftness in managing the coalition's internal divisions. If they now
   start to paralyse the government, or drive it in the direction set by
   the SPD, she will lose her image as a leader capable of rising above
   political adversity. "She has to be with the people, but not with the
   SPD," says Wolfgang Nowak of the Alfred Herrhausen Society, a group
   linked to Deutsche Bank. The best opportunity to strike back at its
   rejuvenated rival may come next month, when the CDU holds its own
   convention in Hanover.


   Sweden's decision to apply to join the European Union came not during
   Carl Bildt's 1991-94 government , as we said last week ("[3]Back on
   the block"), but during the previous administration. Sorry.


   The election campaign in Turkey begins in a febrile atmosphere


   UNTIL a few weeks ago, Mehmet Simsek, a British-educated economist,
   earned a six-figure salary as a banker in London. But he has dropped
   all that to run as a parliamentary candidate for the ruling AK Party
   in Gaziantep, which borders Syria. He is standing "because I want to
   serve my country," he says.

   Born into grinding poverty in Batman, a mainly Kurdish town, Mr Simsek
   did not speak Turkish until he was six. Yet he then clawed his way to
   success. He is the poster boy of the 150 new candidates whom the prime
   minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is fielding in the July 22nd election.
   His presence thins out the religious firebrands within the mildly
   Islamist AK ranks.

   Turkey's meddlesome generals are not impressed. Having hinted at a
   possible coup in late April, they remain eager to stop Mr Erdogan
   returning to power alone. Indeed, in some ways, the contest is now
   between AK and the army. "The military hates AK, and that's the
   foundation of everything," says one Western diplomat. But opinion
   polls suggest that Mr Erdogan's party may do better than the 34% it
   took in the 2002 election.

   The secularist opposition is fragmented. A planned merger of the
   conservative True Path Party with the centre-right Motherland Party
   collapsed amid bickering over numbers of candidates from each side. A
   survey commissioned by AK suggests that the main secularist CHP
   opposition party may get 22%; and the ultra-nationalist MHP, 11%.

   At least 30 candidates from the pro-Kurdish DTP are also expected to
   win seats; the Kurds have fielded 40 independents to get round the
   minimum 10% threshold for parties to have parliamentary
   representation. No other party is likely to get in, so AK might well
   be able again to form a government alone, says a top party official.
   "That is, if the elections take place at all," he adds gloomily.

   Yet Armagan Kuloglu, a retired air-force general, insists that, as
   long as AK picks a "reasonable" presidential candidate (meaning one
   whose wife does not wear an Islamic headscarf) to replace Ahmet Necdet
   Sezer, things will return to normal. It was Mr Erdogan's nomination of
   his foreign minister, Abdullah Gul (whose wife wears the headscarf) to
   succeed Mr Sezer that prompted the generals' threat to intervene on
   April 27th. A defiant AK responded by ramming through a law to allow a
   direct election of the president. This law was quashed by Mr Sezer.
   Few believe it will get past the constitutional court, which
   extraordinarily ruled invalid parliament's attempt to elect Mr Gul.

   Some even fear that the court may now be tempted to launch proceedings
   to ban AK on the grounds that it is steering Turkey towards religious
   rule. For the time being, though, the opposition's strategy is to play
   on mounting public fury in the face of stepped-up PKK rebel attacks
   that have claimed the lives of dozens of Turkish soldiers in recent
   months.

   On June 8th the army exhorted the Turkish public to exert its "popular
   reflexes" to counter terrorist threats. The call posted on the general
   staff website was seen by some as an invitation to attack the Kurds.
   This forced the generals to explain that they wanted the national
   resolve to be expressed through strictly peaceful means.

   Meanwhile, Mr Erdogan is resisting pressure to order a cross-border
   operation against PKK bases in northern Iraq. This has enabled his
   critics to portray him as an American stooge. Crowds at the recent
   spate of funerals of Turkish soldiers killed in battle have taken to
   booing Mr Erdogan and any cabinet members who dare to show up. Mr
   Simsek may soon be yearning for his cushy London life again.


   The cure for ex-communist sleaze in Poland may be worse than the
   disease


   SLEAZE was endemic among the ex-communists who ran Poland until 2005,
   say the moral zealots now in charge. They have backing from a
   surprising source: Jozef Oleksy, an ex-communist who was, in the
   1990s, prime minister, interior minister and parliamentary speaker. A
   leaked recording of his boozy three-hour lunch with one of Poland's
   richest businessmen, Aleksander Gudzowaty, contains detailed
   allegations about top ex-communists' financial shenanigans.

   All those mentioned deny everything. Aleksander Kwasniewski, president
   between 1995 and 2005 and still the left's most popular politician,
   calls Mr Oleksy an "utter cretin" and "traitor". Mr Oleksy has
   grovelled in vain to his former colleagues, complaining that the tapes
   were doctored in the hope of sowing dissension on the left and of
   scuppering Mr Kwasniewski's return to domestic politics.

   Recorded by Mr Gudzowaty's security staff, the tapes seem to have
   reached the media via the justice ministry and the security services.
   Mr Gudzowaty, Poland's fifth-richest man, has not explained how they
   got out. Some think he is currying favour with the powers-that-be: Law
   and Justice, the centre-right party founded by Lech Kaczynski
   (president) and his twin brother Jaroslaw (prime minister).

   The Kaczynskis loathe this sort of thing. They like to stand above all
   for clean government. Their own probity is unquestioned. But their
   record is tainted, not least by the antics of two coalition allies.
   One of these is a bunch of farmers with dodgy business ties; the other
   is a bunch of homophobes who flirt with anti-Semitism.

   Worse, the government has created a paranoid atmosphere, in which
   secret material is close to becoming a political currency. Government
   critics complain of being bugged: hard to prove, but a fear rarely
   expressed since the collapse of communism. The justice ministry seems
   heavy-handed and too fond of publicity. Some say it is being misused
   for political ends.

   The Kaczynskis want to drive the old regime's cronies out of their
   powerful jobs. But they have often brought in their own chums, rather
   than apolitical experts. In a tussle over the sale of Poland's largest
   insurer, they replaced the firm's boss with a candidate who lacks the
   usual qualifications. The head of the country's largest oil company
   has been replaced by an inexperienced friend of the president's.

   The biggest row is about the government's "lustration" law, which
   beefs up the vetting of anybody who ever co-operated with the
   communist-era secret services. The aim is to uproot the uklad, a
   supposed network of communist-era spies and their allies in business
   and the public services that the Kaczynskis blame for all of Poland's
   wrong turnings since 1989.

   Screening public figures for connections to the old regime is common
   in eastern Europe, but the new law has unparalleled scope. Leading
   academics and journalists have threatened civil disobedience. The
   institute that looks after the secret-service archives is concerned
   that it will be unable to certify the purity of as many as 700,000
   people within the time limit stipulated by the law.

   Critics say that screening laws, however well-meant, tend to hit
   collaborators--perhaps coerced at the time and remorseful now--more
   than perpetrators. Heavy vetting is a cumbersome way of dealing with
   the uklad. A better one would be to make the economy more open, so
   that connections ceased to matter. Jan Winiecki, a professor and
   critic of communist economics, calls the law "unacceptable on both
   moral and legal grounds" and says it "puts its authors beyond the pale
   of Western civilisation". The final version proposed by the president
   is vague, lacking a clear definition of collaboration.

   If the publication of the tapes was a bid to destroy the
   ex-communists' party, it has backfired. Wojciech Olejniczak, the
   party's 32-year-old leader, has strengthened his position against the
   old guard after Mr Oleksy's remarks. Polls show that Mr Kwasniewski
   remains popular. The Kaczynskis are creating monstrous difficulties
   for small fry. But they are not catching big fish, such as the tycoons
   who have prospered so mysteriously in recent years.


   A brave tale of journalists who sacked their editor

                                                    Editors in danger too

   IF THE editor mangles this article, his correspondent can do little
   but fume. That would not be true at Der Spiegel ("The Mirror"),
   Germany's leading newsweekly, where the staff are in control. They
   have just abruptly dethroned their long-serving editor, Stefan Aust.

   Mr Aust had made Spiegel shine. He was hired in 1994 to strike back
   against Focus, a colourful upstart, which he managed by livening up
   the magazine's appearance, grooming its prose and publishing more
   provocative covers. Spiegel now leads the newsweekly pack, selling 1m
   copies and having lost fewer readers than either Focus or Stern.
   Spiegel television, which Mr Aust once ran, is thriving; the Spiegel
   [3]website (which is not his patch) has crushed all rivals. The
   magazine has lost political clout, but it still reaches the elite,
   says Henning Kornfeld of the Kress Report, which studies the media.
   Financially, 2007 was the Spiegel group's best year ever.

   Founded in 1947, even before the Federal Republic of Germany's
   official birth, Der Spiegel made its name by tormenting the Adenauer
   government, promoting dialogue with the communist east and dredging up
   scandals. In 1950 the Bundestag even convened a special committee to
   deal with its allegations that parliamentarians were bribed to choose
   Bonn as Germany's capital. Rudolf Augstein, the founding editor, gave
   Spiegel's staff half the company's shares in 1974.

   Mr Aust's detractors think he has betrayed the Augstein legacy. To
   fight off Focus, they say, he made Spiegel less political and more
   superficial. Rather than crusading from the left, Spiegel launched
   tirades from the right, especially against the Social Democrat-led
   government of Gerhard Schrder in 1998-2005. "The fish rots from the
   head," complained Augstein's daughter, Franziska, in 2005. Worse, Mr
   Aust was rude to his staff. They have retaliated by ending his tenure
   early, in 2008 rather than 2010. One insider sees this as a last spasm
   of rebellion by ageing "'68ers".

   With Mr Aust gone, Spiegel can mesh its print and online personalities
   and launch more products bearing its brand, believe his executioners,
   who were joined by the publisher, Gruner+Jahr, owner of a 25% stake.
   But will any forceful personality be ready to put himself at the mercy
   of colleagues who have just turfed out an editor as successful as Mr
   Aust? The answer may become clear only when a new editor is picked,
   perhaps later this month.


   The installation of a warlord as Chechnya's president reflects a wider
   trend as Russia braces for next year's presidential election

                                                          Alex Williamson

                              Alex Williamson


   ALU ALKHANOV is unusual among ex-presidents of Chechnya, be they
   secessionists or Kremlin puppets: he is alive. Last week he was
   peacefully relieved of his responsibilities by Vladimir Putin, who
   appointed as acting president the 30-year-old Ramzan Kadyrov, a
   volatile former rebel warlord who is the son of another (deceased)
   Chechen leader.

   Chechnya's fate and Mr Putin's have long been intertwined. He rose to
   power on the back of the Chechen war launched in 1999. Mr Kadyrov's
   elevation (to be rubber-stamped by the Chechen parliament) is designed
   to ensure Chechnya's stability in the nervous run-up to Mr Putin's
   putative departure from office in 2008. It formalises the de facto
   power that, with his feared militia, Mr Kadyrov has long wielded
   anyway. But it also reflects, as Chechnya tends to, the wider
   political situation in Russia. It is part of what Vladimir Ryzhkov, an
   independent member of the lower house of parliament, the Duma,
   describes as a political zachistka (purge): a word mainly used to
   describe bloody Russian raids on Chechen villages.

   The raids on Russia's constitution are incremental but no less
   insidious. The 5% threshold to win seats in the Duma, already set high
   enough to keep out all the liberal parties at the 2003 election, will
   be raised to 7% for the parliamentary poll later this year. Parties
   are barred from forming coalitions to get over it. Candidates may come
   only from party lists; in the previous system half were directly
   elected by district (that enabled Mr Ryzhkov, for example, to
   survive). Candidates can be debarred for "extremism"; that includes
   slandering a public official. Minimum turnout rules have also been
   scrapped, as has the option of voting "against all". So boycotts and
   protest votes can no longer be used to register dissent.

   Dirty tricks are common. Halls booked for opposition party meetings
   become suddenly unavailable. Rallies and protest marches are easily
   banned, and smothered by riot police when they are not.

   "All our actions", Mr Putin said recently in Munich, "are designed to
   strengthen a multi-party system in Russia." Quite so. Along with
   United Russia, the blindly loyal majority block, the next Duma will
   most likely have a Communist rump and the Liberal Democrats: a largely
   comical faux-nationalist outfit also loyal to the Kremlin. The main
   "opposition" party may be a new one called A Just Russia, created by
   the Kremlin last year to appeal to left-wing and nationalist voters.
   The result, says Grigory Yavlinsky of Yabloko, a fading liberal party,
   is the "illusion of competition", rather like that between rival
   boyars in tsarist times. Mr Ryzhkov, whose Republican Party is also
   stymied by election rules, calls it the "Dresden system", a reference
   to East Germany's bogus multiparty system, which Mr Putin doubtless
   recalls from his spying days in Dresden.

   There are other obstacles for the outsiders. After the example made of
   Mikhail Khodorkovsky, a former oil tycoon now facing fresh criminal
   charges from his Siberian prison, businessmen are disinclined to fund
   Mr Putin's critics. Meanwhile, the Kremlin's grip on the media ensures
   such voices are rarely heard.

   Some small-scale independence survives. Take Novoye Vremya (The New
   Times) a new magazine whose boss was sacked from a big daily paper for
   his too-frank coverage of the Beslan school siege in 2004. Yevgenia
   Albats, its political editor, blames the tameness of much of the print
   media on self-censorship and ambition. "If you want to be part of the
   establishment," she says "you cannot write the truth." Outside Moscow
   journalists face graver perils: this week, in the North Caucasus town
   of Vladikavkaz, the office of IWPR, a brave London-based journalism
   network, was raided by the police. Yet there are signs of life too:
   Victor Fedofenko quit his paper in the Siberian town of
   Khanty-Mansiysk, after its owner vetoed an article on embezzlement. He
   and his colleagues started a new one, with a picture of Che Guevara on
   its first front page, because, says Mr Fedofenko, "We associate him
   with freedom."

   But television--from which most Russians get their news--is another
   story, as even Kremlin officials admit. Political news is dominated by
   flattering coverage of Mr Putin's day. All the main channels are in
   effect controlled by the Kremlin. The general trend, says Masha Lipman
   of the Carnegie Moscow Centre, is to safe, non-political subjects.

   Mr Putin and his aides argue that similar approaches can be found in
   Western countries. But cumulatively they represent a concerted erosion
   of democratic freedoms. Some measures, such as onerous new
   registration rules for campaigning groups, have not yet resulted in
   the draconian clampdowns some predicted. But they create anxiety and
   instil obedience simply by existing. So does the re-emergence of
   Soviet-style checkups on those citizens having too close contact with
   foreigners and other undesirables.

   The mystery is why, popular as he is, Mr Putin bothers with all these
   superfluous instruments of control. Part of the answer is: because he
   can. But another part is that his worry is probably not defeat in
   stage-managed elections, but rather unrest on the streets (hence the
   creation of a pro-Kremlin youth movement). That, plus infighting or
   palace coups inside the Kremlin, where Russia's real political
   competition takes place.

   The need to maintain a balance between rival Kremlin clans seems to
   explain Mr Putin's other main personnel move last week, which was to
   shift Sergei Ivanov from the defence ministry to be a first deputy
   prime minister. That rank is also held by Dmitry Medvedev, who like Mr
   Ivanov is considered a frontrunner to succeed Mr Putin in 2008. That
   may free Mr Ivanov from the tarnish of perpetual scandals over
   brutality in the army (one recent allegation is that soldiers in St
   Petersburg were forced into prostitution). Some now speculate that the
   2008 presidential contest will be between two approved candidates. But
   the main benefit of the change is to Mr Putin, who has reasserted his
   grip on the succession process and shored up his power.

   That is another way in which Chechnya reflects, in extreme form, the
   general situation. Under Mr Kadyrov in Chechnya, as under Mr Putin in
   all Russia, economic improvements have come at a cost of corruption,
   opacity and lawlessness. Both regimes rest on highly personalised rule
   that looks secure but may yet prove unstable.


                                                            Peter Schrank

                               Peter Schrank

   Why nobody was happy with the summit deal on a new European Union
   treaty


   EVERYBODY always claims victory after European Union summits. Often,
   this is a transparent fib. But this time, pretty much all those who
   attended the summit in Brussels walked away with what they wanted (or
   at least what they said they wanted). That should have made them
   happy, but didn't. Instead the meeting, intended to draft a
   replacement for the ill-fated EU constitution, was a strikingly
   bad-tempered affair. ("Deeply disagreeable", shuddered one veteran
   diplomat.)

   There are several explanations for this sourness. But the most
   interesting may be that, although each of three competing camps came
   away from the summit declaring that they had won, their victories
   exposed how differently the 27 EU members now see their relationship
   with Europe.

   The first and biggest camp took in the 22 countries that arrived
   hoping to resurrect the constitution two years after it was stopped by
   No votes in France and the Netherlands. In broad terms, they
   succeeded. They had to chop the defunct constitution up and rename its
   most contentious elements, like a planned "foreign minister". But in
   the relieved words of the Irish prime minister, Bertie Ahern, "90% of
   it is still there."

   The second camp had a single country: Poland. The twin Kaczynski
   brothers who are Polish president and prime minister fought hard (at
   one point even arguing that Poland should be treated as a bigger
   country, because so many Poles died in the second world war). They
   made few friends, but won one huge concession. The Germans, hosting
   the summit as holder of the EU's rotating presidency, agreed to
   preserve for another decade the existing voting rules, which favour
   Poland and underweight Germany. This gift secured the German
   chancellor, Angela Merkel, the successful outcome that she wanted. But
   it left German officials "as miserable as hell", says one witness.

   Conventional wisdom in Brussels holds that Poland will "pay" for its
   behaviour in a future budget round. That is implausible: the EU is
   incapable of being vengeful with such precision. More perilous for
   Poland is the risk of being deemed unserious. Pushing hard for
   national interests is accepted practice in Brussels. But countries
   that repeatedly flout the rules, issue empty threats or take Europe
   for granted end up losing influence: ask Italy, Greece or Cyprus.
   Tellingly, EU leaders coldly swatted aside a Polish request for laws
   on "public morality" to be exempted from the charter of fundamental
   rights. Given the Poles' record of populist social conservatism, it
   was feared that an exemption would lead to "gays being tarred and
   feathered" on the streets of Warsaw, says one diplomat, exaggerating
   only slightly.

   The third camp, comprising naysayers to the constitution, needed
   visible changes to the text, either because their voters had rejected
   it (the Dutch and French) or because they probably would have done if
   asked (the British and Czechs). France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy,
   became a sort of co-host of the summit, working with Ms Merkel to win
   others round to his vision of a boiled-down, simplified treaty. But Mr
   Sarkozy exacted a price for his help. Whereas Ms Merkel toiled away in
   the shadows, Mr Sarkozy invited press photographers to see him meet a
   string of leaders, then went for a jog wearing mirror-finish
   sunglasses and a black T-shirt with the badge of France's toughest
   police commando unit. Flexing his muscles, Mr Sarkozy persuaded Ms
   Merkel to drop a phrase about "free and undistorted competition" from
   a list of the EU's core objectives. Officials explained that this was
   a political move with no legal consequences, but the signal it sent is
   still worrying (see [4]article).

   Britain claimed victory on all four "red lines" brought to the summit
   by Tony Blair, in almost his last act as prime minister. These
   included the right to stand aloof from European police and judicial
   co-operation, and a (perhaps not watertight) opt-out from any risk
   that the charter of fundamental rights might threaten British labour
   laws. Critics at home accused Mr Blair of choosing only winnable
   battles that were easy for voters to understand but making no effort
   to fight the loss of scores of national vetoes (one tabloid accused
   him of "abject surrender").

   The Eurosceptic tide

   To attack Mr Blair is to miss the target, however. Those in Britain
   who hate the new treaty do not really have a problem with the ex-prime
   minister, but rather with the rest of Europe. For sweeping curbs on
   national vetoes in the name of a more efficient EU were backed by 26
   of the 27 countries.

   Indeed, most other governments thought Mr Blair had secured an
   "outrageous" deal (to use one of the more printable terms), given that
   he signed up to the full constitution only three years ago. There was
   special bafflement that Mr Blair insisted that he could have lived
   with the constitution, even when he was acting as if to recover from
   some dreadful mistake. The explanation is that other countries were
   focusing on the wrong mistake. Mr Blair does not really regret signing
   the constitution. But he is working to recover from the tactical
   blunder of offering a referendum on it.

   Mr Blair got away with his demands only because other leaders can
   easily guess the result of any British referendum. For similar
   reasons, each of the naysayers was rewarded with small changes in the
   text, leaving it an incomprehensible mess of footnotes and protocols.
   This caused mounting fury among those who liked the constitution
   (Belgium's soon-to-depart prime minister threw the loudest tantrum,
   shouting at the Dutch that they were "hollowing out" the European
   project).

   Such peevishness was irrational, in one sense: Belgium wanted the
   constitution and got a text pretty much like it, albeit spattered in
   footnotes. But the same footnotes are evidence of Europe's divisions.
   For anyone whose dream is still some ideal of European unity, the mere
   fact that each competing camp won at this summit was, of itself, a
   defeat.


   The election in September is necessary but may not be sufficient to
   clear up Ukraine's messy politics 

   "SORRY we are closed: everybody has gone to the barricades," read the
   note pinned to the door of a travel agency in Lvov, western Ukraine,
   in November 2004. Irina Mala, the manager and part-owner, remembers
   how she gathered warm clothes for her husband and sent him off to
   Kiev, "not knowing whether he would ever come back". For several days
   she clung to the television news, watching people like her husband
   make history in Kiev's Independence Square. "For the first time in my
   life, I felt proud for Ukraine."

   The euphoria of the "orange revolution" is long gone. In the past six
   months, Ms Mala has not even watched the news or read newspapers. The
   power struggle that ensued when Viktor Yushchenko won the presidency
   in December 2004 after weeks of popular protests made her first angry,
   then disappointed and now indifferent. Ms Mala may not even vote in
   the general election on September 30th. "We can't explain to our
   children what is going on," she says. The charges and counter-charges
   are mind-boggling, the nexus between business and politics that Mr
   Yushchenko pledged to break as strong as ever and the switching of
   political sides is like a comic opera, not a revolutionary drama.

   The plot, so far, goes like this. Mr Yushchenko came to power on a
   promise to clean up Ukrainian politics. His defeated rival, Viktor
   Yanukovich, was disgraced because, as prime minister, he had blatantly
   tried to rig the presidential election. Yulia Tymoshenko, a firebrand
   politician in the orange revolution, became Mr Yushchenko's first
   prime minister. But within months, the orange coalition descended into
   turmoil. Ms Tymoshenko's threats to reopen privatisation deals and her
   price caps on fuel and other commodities damaged the economy. Fierce
   internal rows, plus a swathe of corruption scandals, led to the
   dismissal of the government.

   It was thus not a surprise that Mr Yanukovich's Party of the Regions
   took the biggest share of the vote in the parliamentary election in
   early 2006. After more months of infighting on the orange side, Mr
   Yanukovich bounced back as prime minister. Under a compromise in the
   orange revolution, many presidential powers had been transferred to
   parliament. Once he was in the driving seat, Mr Yanukovich began to
   encroach even more.

   According to Mr Yushchenko, the Party of the Regions bribed and
   pressured opposition members of parliament to switch sides so as to
   gain an illegitimately big majority that would let Mr Yanukovich
   change the constitution. Mr Yushchenko accuses the party of trying to
   alter the result of the election and insists that the right response
   was to call a new election. His opponents say this was an illegal
   move. Both sides have cited the constitution (full of loopholes) and
   appealed to the courts (notoriously corrupt). The stand-off almost
   ended violently, but both Viktors have pulled back and agreed to a
   fresh parliamentary election on September 30th.

   Enter Oleksandr Moroz, a renegade socialist and speaker of the
   parliament who is still trying to unravel the deal. Mr Moroz's party
   was once part of the orange coalition. But he betrayed his voters and
   his political allies by joining Mr Yanukovich's camp. The September
   election threatens to get rid of him and his party.

   Few ordinary Ukrainians care about the politicians' squabbling, partly
   because they are used to a state of political crisis and partly
   because they can afford to be bored. After a brief dip under Ms
   Tymoshenko, the economy is doing well, with GDP growing by over 7% a
   year, and incomes are rising. The sharp hike in gas prices charged by
   the Russians has trimmed the pre-2005 double-digit growth, but has
   also led to greater energy efficiency. "The increase in gas prices has
   been very helpful," insists Viktor Pinchuk, a steel magnate who has
   invested $600m in modernising his plant.

   Ukraine's political crisis has had little economic impact. Indeed, one
   reason the economy is doing well, say some, is that politicians are
   too busy fighting each other to meddle. There is also a consensus on
   policy. "Neither Yushchenko nor Yanukovich want to review the results
   of the privatisations, nor build state capitalism," says Oleksandr
   Paskhaver, a former economic adviser to Mr Yushchenko.

   There are, indeed, few ideological divides between the main parties.
   Short-hand labels of Mr Yushchenko as pro-Western and Mr Yanukovich as
   pro-Russian are misleading. "Both politicians are pro-Ukrainian," says
   Petro Oliynyk, governor of Lvov. Both Mr Yanukovich and Mr Yushchenko
   want Ukraine to integrate with Europe, to join the World Trade
   Organisation and to stay friendly with Russia. Mr Yanukovich no longer
   flies to Moscow for advice: these days he is coached by American
   spin-doctors.

   To be sure, there are deep cultural, historical and economic
   differences between the east and the south of Ukraine, which supports
   Mr Yanukovich, and the pro-Yushchenko west (with Ms Tymoshenko's
   support coming from the middle). Only 38% of western Ukrainians have
   been to the east of the country and 35% of easterners to the west,
   says one poll. The east, part of the Russian empire for centuries, is
   largely Orthodox and Russian-speaking. Donetsk, Mr Yanukovich's
   hometown, was the industrial heartland of the Soviet Union. By
   contrast western Ukraine was ruled, as Galicia, first by Poland and
   then by Austria-Hungary, joining the Soviet Union only in 1945. It is
   partly Catholic and mostly Ukrainian-speaking.

   Yet these differences between east and west, exploited by politicians
   on both sides, have not turned into separatism or even hatred. One
   thing all parts of the country agree on is that they want a united,
   independent Ukraine. For all the talk of a pro-Russian mood in the
   east, none of the Russian oligarchs has been allowed to gain control
   of its industrial assets. "Yanukovich is an excellent manager and he
   knows full well that economically the east needs Europe more than the
   west of Ukraine," says Alexander Krivoruchko, a businessman in
   Donetsk.

   The real differences between Mr Yanukovich and Mr Yushchenko lie in
   their values, style of governance and the economic interests they
   stand for. Behind Mr Yanukovich lurk powerful billionaire oligarchs
   who control most of the former Soviet mines and giant steelworks in
   the east. They need markets in Europe, cheap gas from Russia and
   political connections. Mr Yanukovich's critics say that, despite an
   attempt at a makeover, he still bears the marks left by the
   criminalised post-Soviet era. To him, they claim, European integration
   is a way of gaining new markets rather than of installing democratic
   values. But Mr Yanukovich also appeals to eastern Ukrainians who see
   him as a paternal post-Soviet figure who will ensure stable pensions
   and salaries and won't bother with empty promises of a new way of
   life.

   For his part, Mr Yushchenko sees it as his mission to transform a
   post-Soviet country into a democratic European one. Despite
   allegations of corruption in his entourage, most of Mr Yushchenko's
   support comes from millionaires who need clear rules and independent
   courts to enforce contracts. Since there are no giant industrial
   employers in western Ukraine, private initiative is the only way
   forward. "During the orange revolution, we did not fight for Mr
   Yushchenko, we fought against lawlessness," claims Ms Mala.
   Lawlessness and bureaucratic tyranny are still associated with Mr
   Yanukovich, as prime minister before November 2004. "My business was
   under constant pressure from bureaucrats and administrators who all
   demanded bribes," says Ms Mala.

   The election on September 30th is unlikely to change the balance of
   power in the Ukrainian parliament. Even Mr Yushchenko recognises this:
   "I don't question who will lose and who will win in this election."
   But it may still help to lay down rules to prevent a similar crisis
   unfolding again. None of the three main parties is likely to win a
   majority on its own, so a broad coalition between Mr Yushchenko's Our
   Ukraine and Mr Yanukovich's Party of the Regions, which may not
   include the Tymoshenko Block, appears likely. "We are almost done with
   intrigues, unfair agreements, plots and murky games," Ms Tymoshenko
   wrote in a recent article. For Ukraine's 48m people, "almost" is not
   good enough.


   Pre-election tension is rising among the Kurds of Turkey's south-east


   A GOLD-PLATED pistol in one hand, worry beads in the other, Hazim
   Babat sits at the foot of the mountain range that separates Turkey
   from Iraq and contemplates war. He is the chieftain of the Babat clan,
   which is fighting alongside the Turkish armed forces against the
   Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) separatist guerrillas.

   For years the Babats hunted PKK militants in Iraq with the help of
   Peshmerga warriors from the Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP) from
   northern Iraq, led by Massoud Barzani. "The PKK slaughtered our women,
   our babies, they are going to pay the price," vows Mr Babat.

   But times have changed and the Kurds are beginning to unite, wherever
   they live. Nowhere is this truer than in northern Iraq where, with
   American support, as many as 4m Kurds have come closer to achieving
   full-blown independence than ever before. Mr Barzani, who runs the
   Kurdish-controlled enclave, declares that the days of Kurdish
   fratricide are over. He refuses to let Turkish soldiers overrun his
   territory in order to attack the PKK. "Turkey's real problem", Mr
   Barzani opined recently, "is that the Kurds exist at all."

   Despite its repeated calls for cross-border action against the PKK,
   the army's real target may be the quasi-independent Kurdish state in
   northern Iraq. The generals see an independent Kurdish state as an
   existential threat because it would stoke separatist passions among
   Turkey's 14m-odd Kurds. They are "willing to prevent its emergence no
   matter the price", asserts Ibrahim Guclu, a veteran Kurdish
   politician. "Yet the harder they push, the closer together they drive
   the Iraqi and Turkish Kurds," he adds.

   Mindful of America's opposition and of Kurdish votes, Turkey's mildly
   Islamist prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has ruled out any
   incursion, at least before the general election on July 22nd. Yet
   Turkish forces continue to mass along the Iraqi border. The beefed-up
   army presence is palpable in Sirnak, one of three border provinces in
   which no-go "security zones" have been declared. Turkish soldiers in
   armoured personnel-carriers point guns at passers-by. Attack
   helicopters clatter overhead. In the regional capital of Diyarbakir,
   your correspondent counted no fewer than nine F-16 fighter jets
   screeching towards Sirnak within the space of 20 minutes. The PKK is
   hitting back, murdering soldiers and civilians alike.

   Ayla Akat, a human-rights lawyer who is standing for election in
   Batman for the pro-Kurdish Democratic Turkey Party (DTP), concedes
   that the violence is fuelling anti-Kurdish feelings throughout Turkey.
   She points to the attempted lynching this month of two Kurdish
   seasonal workers in the western province of Sakarya. Yet if the
   government were to accept the PKK's demands to ease restrictions on
   the Kurdish language, offer amnesty to PKK fighters and allow their
   leaders to seek asylum in Europe, "the Kurdish problem would be
   solved", she says. "Is anyone talking about independence?"

   In 2005, emboldened by the European Union's decision to open
   membership talks, Mr Erdogan explored a possible deal that would
   accommodate the Iraqi Kurds too. But he was forced to back off under
   pressure from the army. In the same year Mr Erdogan became the first
   Turkish leader ever to admit that the state had made "mistakes" in
   dealing with the Kurds. His words cemented his Justice and Development
   (AK) Party, whose Islamic credentials play well with millions of pious
   Kurds, as the DTP's main rival in the south-east.

   "My people are going to vote for Erdogan because he wants the European
   Union, and EU membership is the panacea for separatism," says Cemil
   Oter, a tribal leader who has lost 40 men to the PKK. But hopes of
   membership are fading as EU bigwigs, led by France's new president,
   Nicolas Sarkozy, lobby against Turkish entry. EU-inspired reforms that
   helped to win Turkey its prized date for membership talks are being
   quietly rolled back.

   The effects are being felt in Diyarbakir, where a local mayor and his
   entire council were barred from office last week for using Kurdish as
   well as Turkish to communicate with their constituents. Abdullah
   Demirbas had already annoyed the authorities by erecting a monument in
   memory of Ahmet Kaymaz, a Kurdish lorry driver, and his 12-year-old
   son, who were gunned down outside their home in the town of Kiziltepe
   in 2004 on the grounds that they were "terrorists".

   All four members of the special forces who were implicated in the
   killings were exonerated by a court in April, proving that "there is
   rarely justice for the Kurds", says Tahir Elci, a lawyer who defended
   the Kaymaz family. Mr Elci is now facing up to three years in prison
   for criticising the court. Meanwhile, reports of torture have risen
   sharply, because new regulations allow detainees to be denied access
   to a lawyer during the first 24 hours of interrogation by police.

   All these things help to swell PKK ranks. The trouble is that the
   rebels' new tactics--setting off landmines and planting
   explosives--have caught the army off guard. Abdullah Gul, the Turkish
   foreign minister, revealed last week that security forces seized two
   tonnes of plastic explosives smuggled by the PKK from Iraq in 2006
   alone. Mr Gul said that "making compromises over democracy in the name
   of fighting terrorism" was "a trap that should not be contemplated".
   But with each Turkish soldier killed fighting the PKK, Turks'
   enthusiasm for democracy, and for the EU, gets harder to preserve.


   Quarrels over a plan to commemorate German expellees from the east 


   SOME 12m ethnic Germans were expelled from their homes in eastern
   Europe after the second world war; tens of thousands died. Those who
   settled in Germany have long wanted a central memorial to their
   tragedy, but the enormity of the Holocaust and tricky regional
   politics have kept them waiting. On October 22nd Germany's chancellor,
   Angela Merkel, used the 50th anniversary of the Union of Expellees to
   announce government plans for a documentation and exhibition centre on
   refugees and expulsions.

   Will this satisfy the lobbies with the keenest interest? Erika
   Steinbach, head of the expellees' group, professes to be pleased. The
   state has "done its job" by agreeing to create a centre of memory for
   victims of expulsion, she says. Yet a federal place of mourning is
   just what Ms Steinbach's critics want to stop. Anything that likened
   their plight to what befell Jews, gypsies and other victims of Nazi
   genocide would distort history and offend many. And an official
   monument that implied guilt on the part of countries that expelled
   them could enrage the Polish and Czech governments.

   Ms Steinbach, a member of Ms Merkel's Christian Democratic Union
   (CDU), has fanned such suspicions with her blunt advocacy of the
   expellees' claims. Ask her who was responsible for their tragedy, and
   she instantly says it was the countries that pushed them out. She has
   "wrecked our relations with Poland", says Wolfgang Benz of the Centre
   for the Study of Anti-Semitism in Berlin.

   The document centre, under the aegis of Berlin's German History
   Museum, is meant to avoid controversy. It would deal with expulsions
   in general, not only those of Germans. Nor would it be at all like
   Berlin's Holocaust memorial. "There can be nothing against a
   scientific centre," says Mr Benz. The CDU's partners, the Social
   Democrats, want Ms Steinbach to have nothing to do with the centre.
   Poland's recent election, which ousted the nationalist prime minister,
   Jaroslaw Kaczynski, in favour of Donald Tusk, a moderate, may help.

   Commemorative fashions go in cycles, says Gavriel Rosenfeld, a
   historian at Connecticut's Fairfield University. Shortly after the war
   urban memorials commemorated mainly Germans themselves, including
   victims of Allied bombing. That began to change in the 1960s, and even
   more in the 1980s, when the political climate made it seem more
   appropriate to concentrate on the Nazis' victims. Now, after several
   books about post-war suffering and the new documentation centre,
   Germans may return to themselves. The latest example: a defence
   ministry plan for a memorial to the 2,600 German soldiers who have
   died for the federal republic.


   Controversy over a law to avert conflicts of interest 

   IT IS an issue that has bedevilled Italian politics for over a decade:
   what to do about Silvio Berlusconi's twin roles as politician and
   media mogul? The former prime minister and his family control a huge
   media empire that includes a publisher, two newspapers and all three
   of Italy's biggest private television networks. When he was in power
   in 1994, and again in 2001-06, he was able to influence the three
   state-owned channels as well--giving him direct influence over 90% of
   Italian terrestrial television.

   This week a parliamentary committee began discussing a bill, tabled by
   the whip of the biggest group in Romano Prodi's centre-left
   government, that would tackle such conflicts of interest. The boss of
   Silvio Berlusconi's TV empire, Mediaset, likened it to the
   stringing-up of Benito Mussolini by communist partisans. But what
   eventually emerges will be far less drastic.

   As it stands the bill would create a special watchdog authority. It
   would force politicians with non-property assets of more than EUR10m
   ($13m) to hand them over to a "blind trust", and require similar
   arrangements for all assets owned by office-holders in the energy,
   defence and media businesses. Such a law would replace one approved by
   parliament in 2004 (when Mr Berlusconi was in power) that was widely
   lambasted as toothless.

   The Prodi government has said it will amend the bill. Its final shape
   will depend on painful and difficult compromises both within the
   governing coalition and, quite possibly, between government and
   opposition. Most leftist politicians regard their failure to curb Mr
   Berlusconi's media power before he returned to office in 2001 as an
   historic error. But, with a majority of only two seats in the Senate,
   they could yet find themselves dependent on the centre-right to pass
   the new law.

   There are also wide differences over how broadly it should be drawn.
   The Italy of Values party, a small outfit led by a former prosecutor,
   Antonio Di Pietro, who spent the heyday of his career trying to send
   Mr Berlusconi to jail, wants a tough, radical measure. But some fear
   that voters would react against what might look like a crude reprisal
   against the former prime minister. Earlier this month Mr Prodi's
   communications minister said that an answer might be found that "in no
   way touches Silvio Berlusconi in person". For the sake of Italian
   democracy, something a bit bolder should at least be tried.


   The president tries to face down protests from the opposition


   IT WAS exactly four years ago that Mikheil Saakashvili, then a
   youthful firebrand leader of the opposition to President Eduard
   Shevardnadze, brought his supporters out into the streets of Tbilisi.
   The protesters were complaining that Mr Shevardnadze had staged and
   won a rigged parliamentary election. The demonstrations were peaceful
   but, because they went on day after day, also intimidating. Within
   days, Georgia's "rose revolution" had driven Mr Shevardnadze out of
   power and installed Mr Saakashvili in his place.

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                   While we were marching through Georgia

   Four years on it is Mr Saakashvili who has been confronted by the
   biggest protests since the rose revolution. The most recent ones, in
   central Tbilisi and in front of the parliament building, have
   attracted crowds at least 50,000 strong. The protesters object to Mr
   Saakashvili's forceful, hands-on style, complain that the benefits of
   the boom (annual GDP growth is close to 10%) have been too narrowly
   shared, and demand fresh elections.

   Yet unlike Mr Shevardnadze four years ago, Mr Saakashvili seems
   determined to hang on. He claims the demonstrations are part of a
   Kremlin-backed putsch against him. "High-ranking officials in Russian
   special services are behind this," he said, adding that several
   Russian diplomats would be expelled. Georgia's ambassador to Moscow
   has been recalled.

   Certainly Russia has systematically provoked Georgia, with trade and
   energy sanctions, harassment of Georgian migrants in Russia, and--most
   recently--mysterious air raids. But Mr Saakashvili's response will do
   little to help his country's reputation as a shop window for the West
   in the former Soviet Union.

   On November 7th police forcefully dispersed the protesters, using
   tear-gas and water cannon. Scores of people were reported injured.
   Among those beaten was Georgia's human-rights ombudsman, Sozar Subari.
   The government then declared a 15-day state of emergency. Riot police
   stormed the main opposition television station, Imedi, and took it off
   the air.

   Countries that normally support Georgia against Russian bullying are
   aghast. Many have been worried privately for some time about cronyism
   in Mr Saakashvili's inner circle. Last month the secretary-general of
   NATO, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, underlined the need for greater political
   transparency and a stricter rule of law if Georgia wants to progress
   towards membership. Outsiders worry that state influence on the media
   is too strong. Many think that the government mishandled a spectacular
   bust-up last month with the firebrand former defence minister, Irakli
   Okruashvili, now in exile.

   Yet the opposition's stance can sound hysterical and sometimes
   outlandish (hanging the president in effigy and demanding the
   restoration of the monarchy after a 200-year interregnum). Given the
   shambles that Mr Saakashvili took over in 2003, the obstacles he has
   faced and the progress he has made, criticisms of him may seem harsh.
   The opposition's motives are open to question too. Badri
   Patarkatsishvili, a tycoon who fled from Russia, openly bankrolls some
   of the protesters, no doubt for admirable reasons. That raises
   questions about the influence of big money in poor countries'
   politics. An adviser to Mr Saakashvili says those backing the
   opposition want Georgia to be a weak state that big business can
   manipulate.

   Western countries will be urging Mr Saakashvili to return political
   life to normal as soon as possible. If he cannot produce proof of
   Russian involvement, many will feel that he has cried wolf, using his
   country's geopolitical significance for narrow domestic advantage.
   Ketevan Tsikhelashvili, a Tbilisi-based analyst, comments that Mr
   Saakashvili and his government have survived, but adds that "in the
   longer term I cannot say his perspectives look very good." At the very
   least this week's events have shown how disillusioned many Georgians
   now are with Mr Saakashvili's commitment to the rose revolution's
   ideals: freedom, legality and international respectability.


   A new star takes the European stage


   HOLLYWOOD calls it star quality. In politics, the word is charisma.
   Nobody can define it; everybody wants it; and France's President
   Nicolas Sarkozy seems to have it. That was certainly the impression
   created at the European Union summit in Brussels. As Britain's Tony
   Blair briefed jaded reporters in a room dotted with empty chairs, Mr
   Sarkozy wowed a jam-packed press room next door. One diplomat talked
   admiringly of his "fizzing political energy". Even the leftish daily
   Libration declared the summit "an unquestionable success" for Mr
   Sarkozy, and published a poll showing that 63% of French voters
   approve of him.

   Nearly two months after his election, outsiders are getting the
   measure of the "hyper-president". For ten years, Mr Blair has been the
   European leader who fascinated his peers the most. Now Mr Sarkozy
   could take on that role. His showmanship may sometimes grate, but even
   his detractors recognise his energy and his deal-making skills.
   "Frankly," said Jack Lang, a Socialist Party grandee, of the summit,
   "we couldn't have done it better."

   The main trophy Mr Sarkozy brought home from Brussels was the new
   simplified treaty that, he likes to recall, he single-handedly dreamt
   up as a presidential candidate. But there was more. "We have obtained
   a major reorientation of the union's objectives," he said of the
   removal of a clause enshrining "free and undistorted competition" as
   an EU objective. To the consternation of market liberals, he said this
   meant "the end of competition as an ideology and dogma" in Europe.

   What is the hitherto reformist Mr Sarkozy's game? Partly, it is just
   domestic politics. Although he has been handed a robust mandate, Mr
   Sarkozy is still mindful of the 55% of French voters who rejected the
   draft EU constitution in a referendum two years ago. Among them was
   around half the Socialist Party. At the time, the No campaign
   denounced the phrase on undistorted competition as evidence of a
   liberal Anglo-Saxon plot. When parliament ratifies the new treaty,
   probably next year, Mr Sarkozy hopes to deploy the removal of this
   clause to disarm rejectionists.

   A second answer, however, has more to do with conviction than tactics.
   Mr Sarkozy has long advocated an unorthodox blend of free-market
   economics with unapologetic industrial interventionism. On fiscal
   policy and labour-market reform, he is genuinely liberal. But as
   finance minister in 2004 he irked the Germans by helping a French drug
   firm to take over a Franco-German rival, as well as thwarting an
   effort by another German company, Siemens, to buy bits of Alstom, a
   French engineering group. Mr Sarkozy persuaded the European Commission
   to let him use taxpayers' money to rescue Alstom--which in the end
   paid off handsomely for the state--but was exasperated by the bruising
   battle it involved. He thus showed not only his belief in national
   champions, but also his visible irritation with the idea that such
   champions can be blocked by Brussels.

   In Mr Sarkozy's case, this belief is not merely a classic Colbertist
   reflex. He did not attend the elite Ecole Nationale d'Administration,
   so is not programmed to believe in dirigisme. Rather, he mixes
   Gaullist faith in the state with a tinge of industrial romanticism.
   During his election, his preferred campaign stop was the factory
   floor, where he liked to be surrounded by workers in blue overalls and
   hard hats, symbols of the industrious values of muscular hard work and
   early rising. Everywhere he repeated his rallying cry: "If the
   factories go, there will be nothing left."

   Mr Sarkozy is thus promising to be a vigorous defender of French
   industry. This could provoke awkward clashes. In mid-July, he faces
   delicate negotiations over the future of the aviation group EADS at a
   Franco-German meeting in Toulouse. On non-industrial matters, and to
   British indignation, he is also serious about opposing Turkish
   membership of the EU: this week France blocked the opening of one of
   three new chapters in Turkey's negotiations. In short, nobody should
   doubt Mr Sarkozy's determination to get his way. Star quality may
   dazzle, but even box-office sensations can be hard to deal with.


   The Turkish economy is doing well, but it is also vulnerable


   IN 2001 Turkey's president, Ahmet Necdet Sezer, flung a copy of the
   constitution at the prime minister, Bulent Ecevit, helping to plunge
   the country into its worst financial crisis since the war. This year
   Turkey has lurched from one political mess to another. In April a top
   general threatened a coup; an early general election was held in July;
   in August Abdullah Gul, a former foreign minister whose wife wears an
   Islamic-style headscarf, became president over the army's objections;
   then Turkey threatened to invade northern Iraq. Yet, in contrast to
   2001, the markets have barely blinked through all the turbulence.

   In truth, the economy is far healthier than it was, thanks mainly to a
   rigid adherence to IMF-prescribed reforms on the part of the ruling
   Justice and Development (AK) party. Since AK came to power in 2002 GDP
   growth has averaged 6.6%, inflation has fallen to single digits and
   foreign direct investment (FDI) has soared. AK's economic record is
   one reason why it won a sharply increased share of the vote (although
   fewer seats) in July.

   Yet Lorenzo Giorgianni, the IMF's top man for Turkey, rightly says
   that this strong economic performance should not be taken for granted.
   Year-on-year GDP growth in the third quarter was the lowest for six
   years, at just 1.5%. The credit crunch and fears of an American
   recession are curbing investors' appetites for emerging markets.
   Turkey, with a huge current-account deficit, is especially vulnerable.
   Negotiations for Turkish membership of the European Union, the
   prospect of which is an anchor for investor confidence, have soured.
   The IMF programme itself is due to expire next May and the government
   has yet to decide whether to renew it.

   The current-account deficit is being boosted by a rising energy bill.
   As manufacturers shift to higher value-added goods, they need costlier
   inputs. Coupled with an overvalued Turkish lira, all this has served
   to push up the import bill. In previous years the deficit was financed
   by hot money, making the economy more vulnerable. Now nearly
   two-thirds of the deficit is covered by FDI, which may hit $22 billion
   this year. Metin Ar, president of Garanti Securities in Istanbul,
   predicts that, with the privatisation of motorways and of
   energy-distribution networks, FDI could rise to $30 billion next year.
   "Foreigners are so keen to get a foot into the market that they are
   happy to pay double, triple the real value of assets."

   With their dizzyingly high profits and much untapped retail potential,
   Turkish banks look appealing targets. New regulations can require
   capital-adequacy ratios to be as high as 20%, against the
   international minimum of 8%. "We don't allow any bank to go below
   12%," says Mehmet Simsek, the economy minister. He adds that the
   state-owned Halkbank is soon to be put on the block.

   Mr Simsek, who was snatched into the job from Merrill Lynch in London,
   agrees that "markets like external anchors" and concedes that Turkey
   is not immune to external shocks. Yet he sees no crisis on the
   horizon. His main task is to push through a social-security reform
   that is a test of the government's commitment to reform. His biggest
   bugbear is high labour costs. He provoked an outcry when he complained
   that Turkey had one of the highest wage burdens among OECD countries.
   High taxes on labour, plus onerous welfare benefits, are a big
   obstacle to the creation of new jobs. Unemployment hovers at around
   10%.

   There is little doubt that Mr Simsek has the will and the brains to do
   what is needed. Ercan Uygur, an economist who taught Mr Simsek at
   Ankara University, says he was "one of my best students". Yet some
   political observers worry that Mr Simsek, who is only 40, may not have
   enough clout. Unlike his predecessor, Ali Babacan, now Turkey's
   foreign minister, Mr Simsek is a newcomer to AK politics. His swift
   rise has provoked some jealousy within the party.

   In truth Mr Simsek cuts an unusual figure in the government, and not
   only as a former investment banker with an American wife. He was born
   into grinding poverty in the mainly Kurdish province of Batman. He did
   not even learn Turkish until he was six. By his own admission, he is
   more comfortable speaking English. A big Shakira fan, he provoked
   mirth at a recent cabinet meeting when he misused the word transparan,
   meaning see-through, while talking about the budget.

   Yet for now, at least, Mr Simsek has the full confidence of his prime
   minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. And it is Mr Erdogan who calls the
   shots. The concern is whether it may be Mr Simsek who gets the blame
   should the economy slow further and foreign investors take fright.


   A timely reminder of the risk of terrorism in Europe

   THE targets are said to have included Frankfurt airport, Germany's
   busiest, and an American air base. The collective power of the bombs
   would have exceeded those used in Madrid and London in 2004 and 2005
   respectively. But on September 4th the plot to commit Germany's
   bloodiest act of terrorism was foiled with the arrest of three men in
   a village in central Germany. The arrests came a day after Danish
   police averted another "major act of terrorism" by arresting eight
   young Muslims in the suburbs of Copenhagen. Six were later released
   but two were charged.

   That terrorist conspiracies could be hatched in Denmark and Germany is
   not a complete surprise. The Danes have staged three terrorism swoops
   in three years. Last year two men of Lebanese origin planted suitcase
   bombs on two trains in Germany; they failed to explode. There have
   been many reports of young Germans going to Pakistan for training
   sessions. The interior minister, Wolfgang Schuble, has given warning
   of high risks.

   Yet most Germans assumed their country was relatively safe, mainly
   because (unlike Britain, Denmark and Spain) it did not send troops to
   Iraq. "Germans don't take the threat as seriously as they should,"
   said Guido Steinberg, a former adviser to the chancellery on
   terrorism, days before the arrests.

   That will change now. Two of the arrested men are German converts to
   Islam. The other is one of Germany's 3m Turks, who have provided few
   terrorist recruits. Two of the three had trained in Pakistan and all
   seem to have links with the Islamic Jihad Union, which staged several
   terrorist attacks in Uzbekistan in 2004. They may have been planning
   to strike on the anniversary of the September 11th attacks in New
   York. And they may have hoped to affect the debate on Germany's 3,000
   troops in Afghanistan. Germany is to decide shortly whether to renew
   its commitments there, which are unpopular and opposed by many Social
   Democrats.

   Germany's law-enforcement coup may also boost Mr Schuble's campaign
   for a law that would allow the authorities to spy on suspected
   terrorists by secretly inserting "remote forensic software" into their
   computers. That proposal has sparked an outcry in a country that is
   especially sensitive to the possibility of abuse by secret police.
   Since the law has not yet been passed, the authorities could not use
   such spyware to catch the would-be bombers, Mr Schuble said. But he
   added that, since terrorists use "modern communications", so should
   the government.


   Serbia's presidential election this weekend is critical to the
   region's future

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                                     Tadic, a tad nervous


   WHEN an election was held in Croatia last November, it was hailed as
   the first in 20 years in which voters could be sure that the winner
   would not stop Croatia from moving towards the European Union. Judging
   by the rancorous debates of recent weeks, the people of Serbia, who
   vote for a president on January 20th, can only envy their neighbours.

   There are two serious candidates: Boris Tadic, the pro-European
   incumbent, and Tomislav Nikolic, acting leader of the
   extreme-nationalist Radicals. Although more formal power lies with the
   prime minister, Vojislav Kostunica, than with the president, the
   result matters hugely. And it comes at a delicate moment. Within weeks
   Kosovo plans to declare independence, and will be recognised by many
   countries. How Serbia responds will define its future.

   On paper Kosovo is still part of Serbia. But since the war of 1999 it
   has been under the jurisdiction of the United Nations. Some 90% of its
   2m people are ethnic Albanians who have long demanded independence.
   When that comes, it will be the end of the Serbian control, real or
   nominal, that began when Serbia retook the province from the Ottoman
   Turks in 1912.

   The UN is handing control of Kosovo over to the EU, which has agreed
   in principle to establish a large mission to deal with police and
   justice in the province. At the same time Serbia is ready to sign a
   stabilisation and association agreement (SAA) with the EU, normally a
   first step towards membership. That would bring substantial funds plus
   a set of reforms the country needs to make before joining, thereby
   catching up with Croatia, which is already negotiating its EU
   membership. It may be helpful that Slovenia, another bit of former
   Yugoslavia, currently holds the six-monthly rotating EU presidency.

   Mr Tadic's party is pro-Western, but still opposes Kosovo's
   independence. It shares power in government with Mr Kostunica's
   conservative nationalists. Mr Kostunica has said that any EU mission
   to Kosovo would be illegal without Serbia's consent, and also that
   Serbia should not sign its SAA if the mission goes ahead or if most EU
   countries recognise Kosovo's independence (which they will).

   Mr Tadic responds that, whatever happens in Kosovo, Serbia has no
   choice but to sign the SAA. Mladjan Dinkic, Serbia's finance minister,
   adds that it would be a "catastrophe" if Serbia were the only country
   in the region left out of the EU. Serbia, he says, will attract $6
   billion of foreign direct investment this year, but it is clear that
   potential investors will lose faith if the country abandons its course
   for the EU. Mr Nikolic, on the other hand, agrees with Mr Kostunica
   that if most EU countries go ahead with plans to recognise Kosovo,
   Serbia should give up trying to join the club.

   Opinion polls suggest a close result on January 20th, which means a
   second round between the top two candidates will have to be held on
   February 3rd. Mr Kostunica's party is not offering a candidate,
   neither is it backing Mr Tadic; many of the prime minister's
   supporters may rather vote for Mr Nikolic in the second round. And
   though Mr Tadic may still squeak through, he cannot count on much
   enthusiasm from many of his erstwhile supporters who think he has been
   a weak president, bossed around by Mr Kostunica.

   It was originally hoped that Serbia could sign the SAA on January
   28th, between the two rounds. That hope is fading, because some
   countries are reluctant to let Serbia have the deal until it hands
   over Ratko Mladic, a Bosnian-Serb general indicted for genocide, to
   The Hague war-crimes tribunal. Even if the agreement is signed, the
   quarrel over Serbia's future in Europe will continue--for if the EU
   sends its mission to Kosovo, Mr Kostunica's party could then block
   parliamentary ratification of the SAA. Serbia's long slog towards
   normality never seems to end.


   A worm in the bud of the rose revolution?


   AS BEFITS a land of film-makers and actors, Georgia likes to play its
   politics as spectacle. That is why, on September 28th, Rustaveli
   Avenue, in Tbilisi, was again awash with demonstrators. Echoes of the
   rose revolution of four years ago are faint: the numbers were far
   smaller and most of the protesters older. But by bringing the crowds
   on to the same streets as in November 2003, the opposition made a
   telling point against President Mikhail Saakashvili.

   The man whose arrest on corruption charges drew out the protesters is
   a former defence minister, Irakly Okruashvili. At 33, he is younger
   and more hotheaded even than Mr Saakashvili. He once promised to
   celebrate new year in Tskhinvali, capital of the breakaway territory
   of South Ossetia. Mr Saakashvili sacked him last year. Mr Okruashvili
   brooded silently for months before producing lurid allegations against
   his former boss. He has accused the president of ordering the murder
   of a Georgian media magnate, Badri Patarkatsishvili, and has cast
   doubt on the death in 2005 of the then prime minister, Zurab Zhvania,
   officially in an accident.

   Yet it is Mr Okruashvili's charges of corruption in the president's
   inner circle that may be more damaging. Mr Saakashvili made his name
   as a crusader for honest government and against nepotism. Mr
   Okruashvili now looks like the jilted outcast of a clan that bends the
   law in its own interests. He has put before Georgians some ugly
   questions that need answering. Mr Saakashvili has dismissed Mr
   Okruashvili's claims as "unpardonable lies"--but he has not answered
   them directly.

   On the whole, Mr Saakashvili's young team has transformed Georgia for
   the better, increasing tax revenues and overhauling the public sector.
   But critics say some measures have paid scant regard to due process.
   Allegedly corrupt officials have been arrested on television and made
   to pay fines directly into the state budget. Prisoners have been
   ill-treated. Shopkeepers and residents of Tbilisi complain that their
   property rights have been flouted in the name of rebuilding the city.
   The leaders of a bloodless revolution in a poor country now preside
   over one of the world's fastest-growing defence budgets.

   A host of discontents has crystallised around the arrest of Mr
   Okruashvili. Eight opposition groups have united into one. Mr
   Saakashvili is losing the aura he once had of being the sole
   undisputed leader of Georgia. In the past he has faced down critics
   with histrionics and theatrical brinkmanship. A sober response, not so
   far in his political repertoire, may now be called for.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=24617362?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=10009704
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

   President Nicolas Sarkozy courts controversy by welcoming Libya's
   leader, Muammar Qaddafi


   THE khaki Bedouin tent was pitched just across from the Elyse Palace.
   Police blocked off the road to allow a white stretch limousine to
   glide into the courtyard. In short, Nicolas Sarkozy bent over
   backwards to welcome Muammar Qaddafi, Libya's leader, on a five-day
   visit. By doing so he prompted a furore in France--and called into
   question his declared wish for a more moral foreign policy.

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

                                            Welcome to Paris, mon colonel

   Mr Sarkozy is not the only Western leader to embrace Mr Qaddafi since
   the Libyan leader escaped from diplomatic isolation in 2003, after
   renouncing a secret nuclear-weapons programme and taking official
   responsibility for past acts of terrorism. Britain's Tony Blair
   dropped in on him in Tripoli in 2004, and was back again to sign an
   oil deal earlier this year. Italy's Romano Prodi, as European
   Commission president, met him in Brussels.

   But nobody else has laid on such a welcome. Mr Qaddafi had two
   audiences with Mr Sarkozy, as well as a parliamentary reception and
   dinner at the Elyse--on World Human Rights Day. In return, Libya
   agreed to buy from France hardware worth more than EUR10 billion ($14
   billion), including 21 Airbus aircraft, military helicopters, 14
   Rafale fighters, armoured vehicles and missiles. France is also to
   supply a nuclear reactor to Libya. The ground for these deals was
   prepared in June, when Mr Sarkozy visited Mr Qaddafi after the Libyan
   leader had freed six Bulgarian medical staff on death row, following
   intermediation by the president's then wife, Ccilia.

   Mr Sarkozy may merely be keeping up a tradition of using diplomacy for
   commercial ends, something his predecessor, Jacques Chirac, did all
   the time. But unlike Mr Chirac, Mr Sarkozy claims to want a
   human-rights dimension in foreign policy. One goal of French
   diplomacy, he said in his election campaign, should be "to promote
   freedom and human rights on the international scene". He added that
   "just because China and Russia are great powers one should not refrain
   from denouncing the violations of human rights that are committed
   there." To this end, he made Bernard Kouchner, a left-wing former
   humanitarian champion, his foreign minister. And he gave Rama Yade, a
   feisty 31-year-old Senegalese, a human-rights post in the foreign
   ministry.

   Yet a pattern has emerged that does not fit these lofty aspirations.
   When Mr Sarkozy flew to China last month, and bagged over EUR19
   billion in contracts for French firms, he excluded Ms Yade from the
   trip. When Russia staged a flawed legislative election, described by
   Germany's Angela Merkel as "neither a free, fair nor democratic
   election", Mr Sarkozy telephoned Vladimir Putin to offer
   "congratulations", to the dismay of fellow Europeans.

   This week opposition deputies walked out in protest over Mr Qaddafi's
   visit to parliament. Even more stinging criticism came from Ms Yade.
   "Colonel Qaddafi must understand", the human-rights minister told Le
   Parisien, "that our country is not a doormat, on which a leader,
   terrorist or not, can come to wipe the blood of his crimes from his
   feet." As for Mr Kouchner, he was in Brussels during the Elyse
   dinner; he called this a "happy coincidence".

   Mr Sarkozy argues that it is sterile to oppose an idealistic to a
   realistic brand of foreign policy. He believes you can pursue both.
   Even as he pushes arms contracts and entertains the likes of Mr
   Qaddafi, he is also sending over 1,000 French peacekeepers to the
   Darfur border. France is ready to talk to anybody who tries to improve
   their behaviour. As Mr Sarkozy asked, "what would we say to Iranian
   leaders if we did not offer a hand to a Libyan leader who has himself
   chosen to turn his back on nuclear arms and terrorism?"

   The trouble arises when one pursues moral diplomacy and realpolitik
   with the same country. Were the arms contracts from Libya part of the
   deal to free the Bulgarian nurses? Mr Sarkozy says not, but the terms
   are being looked at by a parliamentary inquiry. Mr Sarkozy is pressing
   to free hostages in Colombia, among them Ingrid Betancourt, a
   Franco-Colombian. But he also persuaded the Colombians to free a top
   guerrilla from the FARC, considered a terrorist group by America and
   Europe.

   In short, Mr Sarkozy's action-man diplomacy is about results, not
   means: if it works, it works. The release of Ms Betancourt, for
   instance, would be warmly welcomed in France. And Mr Sarkozy has no
   time for left-bank intellectuals "so sure of what they think while
   drinking coffee on the Boulevard Saint-Germain". They may not have
   much time for him, either.


   Viktor Gerashchenko, an implausible presidential candidate


   THE Kremlin has no taste for spontaneous opposition. It could thus
   hardly wish for a better opponent than Viktor Gerashchenko, a sardonic
   former central banker. He is old, adaptable, unpopular and has little
   chance of uniting the opposition, let alone the country. Even in
   Moscow his rating is no more than 10%. Indeed, the Kremlin liked him
   so much that, in the 2004 election, it asked him to play the part of a
   challenger from the nationalist Rodina party to Vladimir Putin. "They
   felt they wanted someone respectable to stand against Putin," he says.

   This time the 69-year-old Mr Gerashchenko has volunteered himself as a
   joint candidate for the opposition. The reason, he claims, is that he
   can no longer stand the way that Mr Putin runs Russia. Even if he is
   old, he says, so was Charles de Gaulle. Yet his nomination testifies
   to the sad state of Russia's political opposition, which lacks
   unifying leaders and ideas. Other candidates include a former prime
   minister, Mikhail Kasyanov, whose rating is half that of Mr
   Gerashchenko's, and Vladimir Bukovsky, a Soviet dissident in Britain.

   More significantly, Mr Gerashchenko's stance is a sign of growing
   alienation among the old Soviet elite from the Kremlin, which they
   feel has been hijacked by unprofessional security-service officers. Mr
   Gerashchenko was the cream of the Soviet bureaucracy. His father was a
   leading banker and Mr Gerashchenko was posted to London to the first
   Soviet foreign bank at only 28. Two years later, he moved to Beirut
   (he is said to be highly respected by the KGB elite).

   As head of the central bank under Russia's first post-Soviet
   president, Boris Yeltsin, he handed out cheap credits to weak Russian
   banks, leading to high inflation and winning him the sobriquet "the
   worst central banker in the world" from Jeffrey Sachs, an American
   economist. His most recent incarnation was as chairman of Yukos, a now
   dismantled oil company, whose founder is in a Russian jail: "I was
   supposed to be a go-between for the Kremlin and Mikhail Khodorkovsky,"
   he says.

   Nor did Mr Gerashchenko mince words when he summed up, on air, the
   fate of Yukos: "The fuckers nicked it." His office was raided by
   prosecutors, who left empty-handed. His biggest issue with the Kremlin
   is not war in Chechnya, foreign policy or even freedom of speech; it
   is the inefficiency, endemic stealing and lack of professionalism of
   top bureaucrats. "The infrastructure is in a terrible state, most
   people in Russia live extremely poorly; there is no competition in
   some sectors, which means high inflation. Given the conditions, we
   could live a lot better."

   What upsets him and his peers most is Mr Putin's "cadres policy". For
   all its rigidity, the Soviet Union offered some social mobility and a
   way for bright, politically ambitious or well-connected people from
   the provinces to rise to the top. The system needed and promoted
   professionals, says Mr Gerashchenko. But Mr Putin's entourage is made
   up mainly of people who "went to the same school or played in the same
   courtyard", he adds. His views may not appeal to ordinary Russians,
   but they will to those among the elite who failed to play in the same
   sandpit as Mr Putin.


   Poland does not see why the European Union should stop it burning coal

   THE Polish economy is growing fast, despite the global slowdown. That
   means it is consuming more energy. But the government has no real
   energy policy--so the country will end up using more coal, with all
   that implies for carbon emissions.

   As it happens, the biggest worry about energy in Poland is not carbon
   but the Nord Stream pipeline, which is due to pump Russian gas
   directly to Germany under the Baltic Sea, bypassing Poland. Polish
   objections are not, as in Sweden, about the environmental risks;
   rather, the Poles fear Russia may exploit its direct access to Germany
   to divide Europe. All Polish politicians oppose the project. Lech
   Kaczynski, Poland's president, hoped last year to forge an alliance
   with four ex-Soviet states to help Poland diversify its energy sources
   away from Russia. But the president of petro-pumping Kazakhstan,
   Nursultan Nazarbayev, pulled out, cancelling his trip to a
   Polish-sponsored energy summit.

   Nuclear-power policy is no more successful. An agreement between
   Poland and the three Baltic countries to build a nuclear-power plant
   on the site of a former Soviet reactor in Lithuania has not yet been
   signed. The Poles are unhappy that the Lithuanians are offering them
   less than the 1,200 megawatts of electricity they need for the project
   to make economic sense. Another idea is to build a nuclear-power plant
   in Poland itself, its first. But this is unpopular with Poles, who
   recall the Chernobyl disaster in Ukraine.

   So attention returns to coal. Waldemar Pawlak, the economy minister,
   has declared his love for the black stuff and, partly in response to
   record oil prices, has even called for greater emphasis on it. Poland
   depends on coal for some 95% of its electricity. But the European
   Union's ambitious plans to cut carbon-dioxide emissions by 20% by 2020
   and to boost renewable energy are raising questions over coal. The
   Poles have already taken the European Commission to court over their
   emissions allowance, which they say is unreasonably low. This clash
   will continue, as all EU members seek higher emissions allowances and
   lower targets for renewables (see [3]article).

   Poland will inevitably continue to rely heavily on coal, says Jerzy
   Buzek, an engineer who served as prime minister in 1997-2001 and is
   now a member of the European Parliament. The country has the biggest
   coal reserves in the European Union (see chart). The government
   supports the development of technology to make it cleaner and more
   efficient to burn coal, but that is not yet available. Mr Buzek pins
   his hopes on techniques to liquefy or gasify coal, but they are not
   yet developed. The capture and storage of carbon emissions underground
   is another possibility, but has yet to be used on any scale. And it
   could send the cost of coal soaring.

   Next week, the commission will propose its emissions targets. Like
   others in eastern Europe, the Poles think the problem has been caused
   by richer countries. But as the biggest EU member in the region, they
   need an energy policy, too.


                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

   The Turkish army continues to play a big role in the country's
   domestic and foreign politics--too big, say its critics


   THIS week's flurry of stories about a purported Turkish invasion of
   northern Iraq confirmed again the special position the army has in
   Turkey. The reports turned out to be exaggerated, but troops and
   armour are massing on the border (see picture), and fears of a
   large-scale intrusion into Iraq remain (see [4]article). For now,
   though, attention will revert to the army's part in domestic politics.

   It is brought home over tea in Istanbul's posh Galata district by
   Tayfun Mater, a left-wing activist, as he describes being tortured
   after the coup in 1980. "The worst bit was when they hung me from the
   ceiling by the arms and applied electric shocks to my penis and
   testicles," says Mr Mater, who spent five years in prison. By the time
   the army handed back power to the civilians in 1983, over half a
   million Turks had been put in prison; 50, including a 17-year-old boy,
   were executed.

   Until recently most Turks believed the days of coups were over. But
   that belief was shattered late on April 27th, when a threat to
   intervene against Turkey's mildly Islamist government was posted on
   the general staff's website, touching off a political earthquake that
   still reverberates.

   The "cyber coup" eventually led the prime minister, Recep Tayyip
   Erdogan, to call an early general election on July 22nd. Abdullah Gul,
   the foreign minister, had to withdraw his bid to replace President
   Ahmet Necdet Sezer, who was due to step down in May. Yet the polls
   suggest that Mr Erdogan's AK Party may return with even more than the
   34% that, thanks to most other parties missing the 10% threshold for
   seats, catapulted it to sole power in 2002. What might the generals do
   then?

   The question echoes around the Ankara cocktail circuit, but it raises
   a host of others. Was the ultimatum delivered under pressure from
   hot-headed junior officers threatening to take matters into their own
   hands? Does the army really believe that the AK government is steering
   Turkey away from Ataturk's revered secular republic towards religious
   rule? Was it all a crude stab at wrecking Turkey's chances of joining
   the European Union? And, again, will the army invade northern Iraq?

   The diary of Ozden Ornek, a retired naval chief, leaked in late March
   to Nokta, a Turkish weekly, suggests several factors may have been
   involved. Excerpts include details of two separate planned coups
   concocted in 2004 that were quashed by the then chief of the general
   staff, Hilmi Ozkok. Conversations between the plotters show suspicions
   of both AK and General Ozkok. Indeed, his enthusiasm for democracy and
   the EU leads them to conclude that he is an "Islamist" too.

   Mr Ornek insists the diary is fake and is suing Nokta for libel. But
   General Ozkok has hinted otherwise, saying that the claims "needed to
   be investigated". Meanwhile, military prosecutors have filed separate
   charges against Lale Sariibrahimoglu, a respected military analyst,
   for her comments to Nokta (which has since been closed down). She
   could spend two years in jail if convicted on charges of "insulting
   members of the military".

   The notion that "the army knows what is best for the people and that
   they cannot be trusted to govern themselves lies at the heart of their
   continued meddling in politics," observes Umit Kardas, a retired
   military prosecutor. It was such thinking (drilled into young officers
   early on) that led the generals to enshrine a right to intervene in
   the regulations that they drafted for themselves in the 1980s.

   The EU insists that any such right must be scrapped if Turkey is ever
   to join its club. So must the system of military courts, which shield
   soldiers from prosecution by civilians. The chief of the general staff
   should be answerable to the defence minister, not the other way round.
   Not surprisingly, the generals' feelings towards the EU are now mixed.
   Joining the EU would crown Ataturk's dream of cementing Turkey's place
   in the West. Yet they want this "only if it can be on their own
   terms--and that means retaining all their privileges," according to
   Ali Bayramoglu, a long-time observer of the army.

   Mr Erdogan became the first political leader to have trimmed the
   army's powers, when his government reduced the National Security
   Council (through which the army barks orders) to an advisory role.
   This and other dramatic reforms helped to persuade the EU to open
   membership talks with Turkey in 2005.

   Fears that their influence might be watered down even more have
   transformed some generals into the EU's fiercest critics. None more so
   than Yasar Buyukanit, who took over from General Ozkok last year. His
   salvoes against creeping Islamisation are often accompanied by veiled
   claims that the EU is trying to dismember Turkey by supporting Kurds
   and other minorities.

   The army's sense of vulnerability has been heightened by a deepening
   rift with America over Iraq. During the cold war, the generals (in
   charge of NATO's second-biggest army) were America's chief
   interlocutors, which bolstered their influence at home. Anti-American
   feelings exploded among Turks in 2003, when American soldiers arrested
   11 Turkish special-force troops in northern Iraq, on suspicion of
   plotting to murder a Kurdish politician. Most Turks saw the move as
   punishment for Turkey's refusal earlier that year to let American
   troops cross its territory to open a second front in Iraq. Trust
   between the two armies has yet to be restored. Tuncer Kilinc, the
   penultimate general to head the National Security Council, told an
   audience in London recently that Turkey should pull out of NATO and
   make friends with Russia, Iran, China and India instead.

   The army's anti-Western stance resonates well with ordinary Turks, who
   are disgusted by America's behaviour in Iraq and by the EU's dithering
   over Turkish membership. The army is still rated as the country's most
   popular institution. To the millions of urban middle-class Turks who
   staged anti-government protests last month, the army remains the best
   guarantor of Ataturk's secular republic.

   Yet, as Mr Ornek reportedly noted in his diary, the deliberate
   isolation of officers from civilian life has confined them to an
   artificial world in which civilians are "unpatriotic, lazy and venal"
   and the armed forces are "industrious, selfless and worthy". As he
   then mused, "What can we achieve with such thoughts?" Yet if the army
   is to continue to command the affection of its citizens it needs to
   change with the times. The generals could not have missed the many
   placards during last month's protests that read "No to sharia, No to
   coups." A drive to weed out corrupt officers launched under General
   Ozkok is an encouraging sign that the army is prepared to be more
   self-critical. But respecting the election result, no matter what it
   is, remains the biggest challenge of all.


   Yulia Tymoshenko wins a second chance

   IT WAS a telling contrast. Just one day after President Vladimir Putin
   more or less appointed himself Russia's next prime minister, the Rada
   (parliament) in Kiev chose in a free vote to make Yulia Tymoshenko
   Ukraine's prime minister. It also exposed the fallacy that post-Soviet
   Slav countries cannot be democratic.

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                         Yes, I have my majority--at last

   Ukraine has been cited by the Kremlin as an example of democratic
   turbulence to be avoided. Russian television has gloated over
   Ukraine's chaotic politics, pointing up the advantages of Russia's
   stable system, in which decisions are taken by the Kremlin and
   rubber-stamped by the Duma. Ukraine's politics have been messy ever
   since the orange revolution of late 2004, when Viktor Yushchenko
   became president.

   Yet for all the disillusion in the orange camp, Ukrainians gave it one
   more chance in the parliamentary election on September 30th. Ms
   Tymoshenko's party did well, taking votes from the Party of the
   Regions led by Viktor Yanukovich, the outgoing prime minister. With
   the pro-Yushchenko Our Ukraine block, Ms Tymoshenko had enough seats
   to push out the Party of the Regions. But it took two months for her
   to form a coalition. Nerves were further frayed on December 11th, when
   the electronic voting system failed to register two votes for Ms
   Tymoshenko. But on December 18th the parliament at last backed Ms
   Tymoshenko, by a one-vote margin.

   The good news is that Ukraine has proved itself to be a genuine
   democracy, with a fierce competition for power and now a functioning
   opposition. As one Russian oligarch notes, Ukrainian politicians have
   tried it all to win power: election-rigging in 2004, money to bribe
   politicians to switch sides in 2005-06 and now democracy.

   Ms Tymoshenko and Mr Yushchenko have been here before. He made her
   prime minister in early 2005, only to fire her months later. She
   blames her failure on the fact that she did not have her own team and
   was undermined by Mr Yushchenko's friends. Now she is in a stronger
   position and has already shaped her own cabinet. She promises judicial
   and economic reform, more open government and an end to murky
   intermediaries in the gas trade with Russia. But some pledges may be
   impossible to deliver.

   Her first challenge is to keep the orange coalition together. The Our
   Ukraine block consists of ten parties. Some of Mr Yushchenko's
   supporters cannot stand Ms Tymoshenko. Mr Yushchenko may feel
   justifiably threatened by her as a potential presidential candidate in
   2009. But to be credible, Ms Tymoshenko must tame her populist
   instincts. In a presidential election she will be judged on her record
   as prime minister. If the orange coalition fails to modernise and
   reform Ukraine, it would betray those who three years ago helped stage
   the orange revolution in the snow of Kiev. It would also set a bad
   example for other ex-Soviet republics--and give even more cause for
   Russian gleefulness.


                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

   The implications of a diplomatic shift in an important oil-rich region


   WHEN God was parcelling out land to the peoples of the earth, the
   Georgians arrived late. But their explanation--that they had been
   drinking in his honour--so delighted God that, according to a Georgian
   creation myth, he granted them the world's choicest spot. The gods
   have indeed favoured Georgia this winter, bestowing a mild one when a
   harsh one might have been disastrous. But the Georgians owe thanks
   also to an earthly benefactor: their neighbour Azerbaijan, whose
   oil-fuelled foreign policy is transforming the volatile but vital
   Caucasus.

   Since the revolution of 2003 that swept Mikhail Saakashvili to
   Georgia's presidency, his yen to join NATO and the European Union has
   infuriated the Kremlin. Last autumn, the Russians imposed postal and
   aviation blockades, alongside the existing embargoes on Georgia's
   water, wine and fruit. Then, with winter approaching, they doubled the
   price for Russian gas--in theory for commercial reasons, but with the
   real aim of taming Mr Saakashvili.

   Yet, for all Mr Saakashvili's high-profile rambunctiousness, the most
   important country in the Caucasus is Azerbaijan. With around 8m
   people, most of them Shia Muslims, it has the biggest population. It
   also has oil and gas, which a consortium led by BP is extracting from
   the Caspian Sea and pumping through new pipelines across Georgia to
   Turkey and beyond. All the Caucasian economies are now picking up,
   after collapsing with the Soviet Union--even corrupt Armenia's,
   dependent though it mostly is on remittances. But the growth created
   by Azerbaijan's second oil boom (the first was 100 years ago) was the
   highest in the world last year: 34.5%, says the finance minister.

   Azerbaijan's president is Ilham Aliev, who inherited the job from
   Heidar, his strongman father. The younger Aliev seemed also to have
   inherited the Caucasian skill of diplomatic balance, eschewing
   Georgian-style pyrotechnics. But that careful equilibrium appeared to
   change in December, when the Russians tried to hike the price of the
   gas that, despite its own reserves, Azerbaijan was itself still
   importing. The idea was apparently to stop Azerbaijan helping the
   Georgians with cheaper supplies.

   "Commercial blackmail," said Mr Aliev. Azerbaijan stopped importing
   Russian gas altogether--and, thanks to the warm weather, gas from
   Azerbaijan seems set to help Georgia through the winter. Elmar
   Mammadyarov, Azerbaijan's foreign minister, says his country is merely
   "taking responsibility as a regional leader." Mr Saakashvili is more
   exuberant: "a geopolitical coup", he says of the new gas arrangements.
   The truth is, Mr Aliev now needs Mr Saakashvili too. Azerbaijan's
   future, and Mr Aliev's power, rest on the new pipelines, which have
   bound their two countries together, and bound both of them to the
   West. In a few years they may also carry Kazakh oil from the other
   side of Caspian, and--perhaps--gas from Turkmenistan. That would undo
   Russia's grip on the supply of Central Asian gas to Europe, and is as
   unpopular an idea in Moscow as it is welcome elsewhere.

   Two things undermine the hope that the fractious Caucasians have
   finally learned to hang together, to their own benefit and that of
   Western energy consumers.

   One is domestic politics. Russia's diplomatic power may be waning, but
   its political model remains popular. Armen Darbinian, a former
   Armenian prime minister, quips that his and other post-Soviet
   countries have become "one-and-a-half party states": a party of power,
   plus others that are basically decorative. In Azerbaijan, opposition
   activists are regularly harassed and locked up. Like Russia, Georgia,
   Armenia and Azerbaijan will all hold presidential polls next year. Mr
   Aliev will surely win his; the whisper in Baku is that his wife will
   take over next. But another whisper is that, in the absence of
   democracy, Islamism is on the rise--encouraged, say some, by Iran to
   the south.

   The Islamists, says Ali Kerimli, a disgruntled oppositionist, curry
   favour with their complaint that "the West sells democracy for oil."
   Others say the threat is fanciful. The call to prayer rings across the
   boutiques and restaurants of downtown Baku, but there are actually
   more hijabs on the streets of London, says Ilgar Ibrahimoglu, an imam.
   All the same, things may change if too much of the oil money goes into
   nepotistic contracts and vanity projects, and too little on
   diversifying the economy and easing the grinding poverty in which many
   Azerbaijanis still live.

   The other big Caucasian danger is war. Russian support for South
   Ossetia and Abkhazia, two enclaves that broke away from Georgia in the
   1990s (see map), is one of Mr Saakashvili's main gripes. Azerbaijan
   also lost a secessionist conflict over Nagorno Karabakh, a part of
   Soviet Azerbaijan mostly populated by Armenians. Mr Aliev periodically
   makes dark threats about retaking Azerbaijan's lost territory by
   force, though a flare-up in Georgia currently looks likelier.

   Mr Saakashvili says Russia's economic embargo "achieved the opposite
   of what was intended", and that Georgia has found new markets.
   Suitably cheered, he this week hosted Mr Aliev and Turkey's Recep
   Tayyip Erdogan, shaking hands on a new railway that will link the
   Caucasus to Europe--but miss out Armenia. Vartan Oskanian, Armenia's
   foreign minister, complains that there is an existing railway across
   Armenian-controlled territory that could be used instead. The railway,
   like the pipelines, symbolises what the countries of the Caucasus can
   achieve together, but also how far apart they remain.


   The Polish government is all tangled up in the past


   OUTSIDERS like to decry Poland's ruling twins, sometimes as buffoons,
   sometimes as bloodthirsty inquisitors. Both characterisations of Lech
   and Jaroslaw Kaczynski, respectively president and prime minister, are
   unfair, but each contains a grain of truth. The twins' foreign policy
   has been inept, sometimes comically so. And, until it was struck down
   by the constitutional court last week, their vetting law seemed not
   only sweeping, but downright sinister.

   Its aim was to screen 700,000 people for past collaboration with the
   communist-era secret police, including not only journalists and
   academics but also some (previously vetted) anti-communist
   politicians, such as Bronislaw Geremek, a former foreign minister. Mr
   Geremek refused to complete another vetting declaration, thereby
   risking his seat in the European Parliament. This prompted huge
   criticism: Daniel Cohn-Bendit, a Green colleague, said it was like
   "ordering a Jew in a concentration camp to submit a statement that he
   hasn't collaborated with the Nazis."

   The Kaczynskis' initial reaction was to counter-attack. At one point
   they and their allies even seemed to challenge the constitutional
   court's legitimacy. In a bizarre intervention on the day of its
   ruling, a deputy from the ruling Law and Justice party, Arkadiusz
   Mularczyk, demanded a delay, producing hurriedly obtained
   secret-police files on some of the judges. Now the government has
   accepted the court's ruling, which guts the central provisions of the
   law. Journalists and academics are excluded, and the penalty for
   non-compliance--a ten-year ban from a person's profession--was also
   struck down.

   This has avoided a constitutional crisis, but left the question of
   what to do with Poland's millions of locked-up secret-police files,
   which occupy 80km (50 miles) of shelf-space. Secrecy allows the wicked
   to pose as blameless, and offers much scope for blackmail. The
   emerging consensus is to replace the vetting law with an open-archive
   policy. One idea is to allow access by everyone to everything. Yet the
   files contain much private information, accurate or not, on things
   like medical conditions or sexual indiscretions.

   So a more likely answer will be to open the files to public scrutiny
   with non-political material expunged. But by whom? Some suspect that
   the whole subject will now get bogged down in the question of
   reforming the management of the archives, delaying embarrassing
   revelations for many years.

   Behind the row lie some sharply different views of history. The
   Kaczynskis believe that, after communism collapsed in 1989, the
   transition to democracy was botched--maybe even sabotaged--by elements
   from the old regime. They yearn to bust the crony-capitalist
   arrangements that have grown up between business, officialdom, the
   media and leftist politicians. Mr Geremek's 20-year stint in the
   opposition counts for little: how, critics ask, did he get the juicy
   job of running the Polish Cultural Centre in Paris in 1960, at the
   height of the cold war, without having ties to Polish (or Soviet)
   intelligence?

   Others say that the Kaczynskis themselves are prisoners of the
   suspicious, confrontational mindset engendered by totalitarianism.
   Justice is one thing; revenge another. Since 1989 Poland has tamed
   inflation and built a thriving market economy. Now it needs to
   modernise its public services and play a constructive role in Europe.
   Ending the heated controversy over the vetting law offers the best
   chance of concentrating on that.


   After one year, Romano Prodi's government looks surprisingly stable

   GOVERNMENTS elected for five years seldom brag about surviving for
   one. But Romano Prodi's centre-left coalition, which will mark its
   first birthday next week, has good reason to celebrate.

   If ever an infant needed incubation, it was Mr Prodi's administration
   a year ago. His "Union" spans an ideological range from neo-Trotskyist
   to quasi-Thatcherite. It began life with a majority of just one
   elected representative in the Senate, the upper house, which has equal
   power with the Chamber of Deputies. In February it almost came to
   grief over foreign policy, scraping through a confidence vote thanks
   to a rebellion by two opposition senators. Yet three months later it
   looks quite safe.

   This week, the European Commission raised its forecast for Italian
   economic growth in 2007 to 1.9%. It said it expected Italy's
   once-troublesome budget deficit to come in at only 2.1% of GDP, well
   under the euro-area ceiling of 3%. And it predicted that the country's
   debt burden would be trimmed by 1.8 points from 2006, to 105% of GDP.

   There are three secrets to Mr Prodi's survival, besides the improving
   economy. The first is technical. Not all Italian senators are elected.
   Seven are life senators. Of the five who attend regularly, four
   usually vote with the centre-left, giving the government a bigger
   majority than it appears to have on paper.

   The second reason for Mr Prodi's survival is the similar durability of
   his arch-enemy, Silvio Berlusconi, as the centre-right opposition
   leader. The media tycoon's five scandal-ridden years in office, which
   ended in his narrow electoral defeat last spring, traumatised the
   centre-left. If there is one thing that stops its otherwise querulous
   leaders from bringing down the government, it is the horror of being
   seen to usher Mr Berlusconi back into power.

   One of Mr Berlusconi's own allies is helping to avoid that. Since the
   election, Pier Ferdinando Casini, leader of the Union of Christian
   Democrats (UDC), has partly detached his party from Mr Berlusconi's
   House of Liberties alliance, backing the government on causes it
   supports, such as keeping a military presence in Afghanistan. The UDC
   leader dislikes Mr Berlusconi's more confrontational tactics. But he
   also wants to replace him, and calculates that the longer the
   government stays in office, the less likely it is that Mr Berlusconi
   will be the centre-right's candidate at the next election, due in
   2011, by which time il Cavaliere will be 74.

   Mr Prodi's third secret is that most essential political attribute:
   luck. He came to office spooked by a widening budget deficit into
   thinking the fiscal situation was dire. He and his finance minister,
   Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa, set about passing a belt-tightening
   mini-budget and then a full 2006 budget that raised taxes and, to a
   lesser extent, cut spending. Yet it soon became clear that cash was
   pouring into the treasury. This was partly because the economy was
   benefiting from a Europe-wide upswing, but it was also because one-off
   measures passed under Mr Berlusconi proved to have enduring effects,
   by bringing to light previously undeclared sources of tax revenue.

   Indeed, Mr Prodi is under pressure from all directions over how to use
   the windfall. The European Commission wants Italy's still formidable
   debt to be cut. The left of his coalition wants to reduce the big gap
   in Italy between rich and poor. The right would prefer to use the cash
   to cut taxes. The resulting tensions could yet sink Mr Prodi's
   unexpectedly durable coalition. But, as he will recall from the
   painful euro-qualifying 1990s, there are worse problems than having
   too much money.


   What strict national rules on shopping hours and sales reveal about
   European views of competition



   ARE you glum about brashly commercial holiday seasons? Annoyed when
   winter sales start earlier every year? Then Charlemagne has the place
   for you. Pick the right European country, and no sales pitches need
   disrupt your festive cheer. Try France, where sales will by law begin
   only on January 9th. Or Belgium: not only are sales banned before
   January 3rd but, under "pre-sales" rules, for six weeks beforehand
   shops cannot announce price reductions, lest somebody jumps the gun.

   During the twice-yearly pre-sales blackouts (there are also summer
   sales) a hundred inspectors from the Belgian economics ministry scour
   the country for advertisements, window stickers or price tags that
   even hint at discounts. A Prohibition-style speakeasy culture has
   sprung up in response. Gambits include putting question-marks on price
   tags and advertising "friendly prices". Chic boutiques in Brussels
   telephone favoured customers or send them "privilege cards", inviting
   them to pop in for an early visit. Controls must be "extremely severe"
   to ensure that the rules stick, explains Robert Geurts of the
   economics ministry, who glories in the title of director-general for
   regulation and organisation of the market. Inspectors receive many
   tips by telephone as rival shopkeepers denounce each other.

   If all this sounds fundamentally illiberal, that is because it is. One
   Eurocrat suggests that a key ancestor of many continental bans on
   unfair trading is a German law from the mid-1930s that sought to stamp
   out what Nazi officials called aggressive "Jewish" conduct among
   shopkeepers. But the laws also carry more than a whiff of distrust of
   capitalism itself. Belgian parliamentary papers from the late 1960s
   describe indignantly how some shops "deliberately" sell products at a
   loss to attract customers who might buy other goods at full price, a
   ploy referred to as "destructive" competition. Such loss-leaders were
   banned in Belgium in 1971, along with any selling below cost or at
   "extremely reduced" profit margins. This has kept the lawyers busy as
   the courts argue over what extremely reduced might mean. And that is
   why sales in Belgium are such a big deal: though offering discounts is
   legal at other times of the year, the sales are the only time when
   Belgian shopkeepers may sell goods at a loss.

   In Belgium, you cannot even tell customers to "buy one and get one
   free", as the maximum discount for multiple sales is 33%, or buy two
   and get a third thrown in. And sales are reserved for the "seasonal
   renewal" of stock. That means no goods may be specially bought in for
   the sales, and things deemed non-seasonal may not be put in sales. Cue
   more court cases: judges have established that sofas are seasonal but
   antiques are not.

   To distant observers, all this could add up to a picture of a country,
   indeed a continent, that is keener on the smothering embrace of state
   control than on the rigours of capitalism. Belgian shops are mostly
   obliged to close by 8pm every day; Sunday opening is rare. Price
   controls on bread were abolished only in 2004. Yet the true picture is
   both messier and more revealing of the forces that really hold Europe
   back.

   Reforms are possible in Europe, now a thoroughly capitalist continent.
   It is just that vested interests and coalition politics make the pace
   of change glacial. A European Commission proposal to liberalise sales
   promotions expired in 2005, killed by national governments. Yet in the
   past decade Germany and the Netherlands have trimmed or scrapped rules
   governing opening hours and trading practices. France still fixes
   sales periods and bans selling at a loss. But those rules have just
   been proposed for the scrapheap by a state-sponsored committee.

   Belgium has a pretty dynamic business sector (at least in
   Dutch-speaking Flanders). It has pulled off some quite big reforms
   over the years, despite a national inclination for cosy compromise.
   You should have tried the 1970s, says Mr Geurts cheerfully: "We really
   had price controls. There was a real desire to control everything."
   The government has just published a report by a lawyer, Herman De
   Bauw, urging the abolition of several obviously daft restrictions,
   including pre-sales blackout periods. Although he wrote much of the
   existing law, Mr Geurts himself admits that it is "showing its age".

   The power of vested interests

   But there will be opposition, led by the small shops and businesses
   that benefit from the weirdest trading laws. The pre-sales blackout on
   advertising discounts is a prime example. It was dreamt up in the
   1980s by centre-right politicians fearful that small businesses could
   not compete if big chains were allowed to go after bargain-hunters in
   an unregulated free-for-all. The blackout forbids publicising price
   cuts, but there is no matching ban on giving a customer a discount in
   the run-up to the sales, so long as they ask for one. It is no
   coincidence that haggling is possible in small shops, but harder in
   chain stores.

   Rules on fixed sales periods and selling below cost have come about in
   a similar way. Their target is explicit: big chains that are often
   accused in parliament of plotting to drive small businesses into
   extinction, so as to establish monopolies and raise prices at their
   ease. As the De Bauw report notes, this is a dubious argument. Fierce
   competition, it says, not monopolistic pricing, marks out Belgium's
   supermarkets.

   Belgians, like many other Europeans, appear genuinely attached to town
   centres filled with small shops, rather than the same old chains. Nor
   is there any great consumer pressure for longer shopping hours: many
   stores shut long before the legal closing time. Yet when Belgium's
   shopkeepers use their political clout to hold everybody to the same
   starting date for sales, or ban each other from setting their own
   prices, they are killing jobs and hurting customers. No wonder
   capitalism has such a mixed reputation in so much of Europe. Often it
   is not markets that are lacking, but free markets. And that is
   something to feel truly glum about.


   The coalition at last gives up the ghost and prepares for a new
   election


   THE Polish government has imploded. The ruling Law and Justice Party
   has decided to press for an election this autumn, perhaps as early as
   October. The coalition's demise has been long drawn-out and it will
   not be mourned. But the antics of Poland's politicians may not
   encourage high voter turn-out--and even an election might not bring
   much improvement.

   The three coalition parties are busily blaming each other for bringing
   the government down. The prime minister, Jaroslaw Kaczynski, has now
   summarily dismissed all four ministers from the junior parties,
   including a deputy prime minister. Their replacements have improved
   the government "both intellectually and morally", he declared. He
   started the ball rolling a month ago by sacking Andrzej Lepper,
   another deputy prime minister and agriculture minister who heads the
   Self-Defence party and was implicated in a bribery scandal. Next to go
   was the interior minister, sacked for allegedly leaking information
   against Mr Lepper, pitting both men against the zealous justice
   minister, Zbigniew Ziobro.

   The coalition was never a dream ticket. Law and Justice, a party set
   up by Mr Kaczynski and his twin brother Lech, who is now president,
   won the 2005 election on an anti-communist, anti-corruption platform.
   This sat uneasily with its alliance with Self-Defence, best known for
   cronyism and murky business connections. The other junior partner, the
   League of Polish Families, attracted ridicule for such acts as seeking
   an investigation of "Teletubbies", a children's TV programme, because
   one of the characters might be a homosexual.

   Law and Justice had some good ideas, but their implementation was
   messy. Its main goal was to clean up the sleaze of the previous
   (ex-communist) Socialist government. But the party resorted to
   unappealing methods. In trying to uproot all traces of links to the
   old communist regime, it created a situation in which loyalty was
   prized above competence. Earlier this year, a colleague of Lech
   Kaczynski's from his time as Warsaw mayor replaced Leszek Balcerowicz,
   widely seen as the creator of Poland's modern economy, as governor of
   the central bank. The independence of the judiciary and the civil
   service have both been undermined. A negative verdict by the
   constitutional court on a vetting law was attacked by a Law and
   Justice deputy who, it seems, was asked to find compromising material
   on the judges.

   Not everything the government has done is bad. It shut the old
   military-intelligence service, which became a cosy meeting-place for
   ex-communist spooks. With the help of a good regional minister, its
   use of money from Brussels, worth some EUR67 billion ($90 billion)
   between now and 2013, has become more efficient. The finance minister
   has struggled valiantly to keep Poland's budget deficit under control,
   resisting the spending demands of her colleagues. Yet on balance the
   government's record is poor. The cabinet is a hopeless lot: the only
   two members with international standing, the foreign and defence
   ministers, were both forced out to be replaced by Kaczynski cronies.
   Poland's relations with her European Union partners have been scratchy
   at best.

   Sadly, the opposition is little better. On the right, Civic Platform
   often lapses into a testy defensiveness rather than promoting its own
   policies. It has a lead in the polls, but would need a partner to form
   a government. Despite also being on the right, Law and Justice is an
   unlikely choice on personality grounds. The alternative may be the
   Democratic Left Alliance, successor to the Socialists. Yet though
   revamped by a former president, Aleksander Kwasniewski, and led by a
   media-savvy 33-year-old, it remains taboo to both centre-right
   parties. Its support is needed for a two-thirds majority to dissolve
   parliament, however.

   Some observers fret that the outcome could once more put Law and
   Justice just ahead of Civic Platform, leaving it to scrabble for a
   humbler partner among smaller parties. That might be good for the
   Kaczynskis, but not for Poland--nor for the EU.


   The most prominent Muslim minister causes a stir at home and abroad


   SHE was dressed in Dior for the dinner in honour of Nicolas Sarkozy at
   the White House, and seated at the king's table for the one in
   Morocco. She was in China with the French president last week, and at
   his side again this week for a state visit to Algeria. No other
   minister seems to follow the globe-trotting Mr Sarkozy as much as
   Rachida Dati, his justice minister, and none is so scrutinised by the
   French media.

                                                                  Eyevine
                                                                  Eyevine

                             The minister for justice, and foreign travel

   The first Muslim to hold such a top government job, and a woman to
   boot, Ms Dati has become emblematic of an effort to open up the French
   elite. This makes her controversial judicial reform a test of the new
   France in more ways than one.

   Ms Dati's backstory, as recounted in her recent book, "Je Vous Fais
   Juges" ("You be the Judge"), reads more like that of Barack Obama than
   the typical French minister. One of 12 children raised in a council
   flat by an illiterate Algerian mother and a Moroccan stonemason, she
   rose and qualified as a magistrate through a mix of tenacity,
   pushiness and hard work, including night shifts as a nursing
   auxiliary.

   She was adopted by Mr Sarkozy when he was interior minister (she had
   written to him cold, and demanded a meeting) and has worked in his
   team ever since. Since she was appointed rather than elected, Mr
   Sarkozy's centre-right party is seeking to boost her standing by
   putting her top of the list for the next municipal elections in the
   bourgeois 7th arrondissement of Paris. Ms Dati's ascent prompts as
   much admiration as it does resentment. Her appointment did not prevent
   another eruption of street violence in the heavily Muslim banlieues
   last month. In the same week that rioters torched cars, the country's
   justices also took to the streets during a strike to protest against
   her plans to amalgamate courts. Robert Badinter, a Socialist senator
   and former justice minister, said he had never seen "such anxiety and
   bitterness" from magistrates.

   Unpopular as it may be, the reform makes sense. The geography of the
   French court system has not changed in nearly half a century, despite
   huge population shifts. In largely rural areas, there is a tribunal de
   grande instance (county court) for fewer than 150,000 people; in big
   cities, one such court serves over 550,000. In Lorraine in eastern
   France, ten magistrates' courts employ a full-time judge without the
   workload to justify it, and two have none at all. By contrast, some
   city courts have vast backlogs. Ms Dati plans to close 178 of the 473
   magistrates' courts, and 23 county courts, and redistribute staff.

   Mr Sarkozy has made clear his desire to shake up the court system to
   speed up decisions, improve access and end the isolation of some
   investigating judges. An inquiry into one of France's most egregious
   recent miscarriages of justice--the imprisonment of 13 people
   wrongfully accused of running a paedophile ring in Outreau--said one
   cause was the fact that the investigating judge was working entirely
   alone.

   Naturally, magistrates affected by closures are enraged. Members of
   parliament, even those from Mr Sarkozy's party, have been fiercely
   critical of Ms Dati's plans too, accusing her of striking courts off
   the map without consultation. There also seems to be genuine concern
   about Ms Dati's management style. In her short time in office, more
   than half a dozen members of her staff have quit.

   The trouble for critics is that questions about Ms Dati's competence
   collide with France's awkward new political correctness. Charges of
   racism are already in the air. Dominique Sopo, head of SOS Racisme, an
   anti-discrimination group, says hostility to her reform is because she
   is "young, a woman, and of North African origin. Unfortunately, this
   profile creates resentment among a French elite made up of white men
   over 55."

   Still, other female members of the government too are said to have
   been put out by Ms Dati's prominence, not least the Senegalese-born
   Rama Yade, junior foreign minister for human rights, who was excluded
   from Mr Sarkozy's trip to China.

   Mr Sarkozy has stood solidly by Ms Dati throughout. Having publicly
   admired the ethnic diversity of the Bush administration in America, Mr
   Sarkozy is commendably keen to reproduce it in France. Indeed, given
   her iconic value, he cannot afford to let her fail.


   From Vladimir Putin (front) to Dmitry Medvedev (behind): a very
   Russian way to change the political guard

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP


   VLADIMIR PUTIN likes to surprise. But this time he has excelled
   himself, making a surprise out of something that is not surprising at
   all. Dmitry Medvedev, a 42-year-old lawyer chosen by Mr Putin to be
   Russia's next president, was always a front-runner. That Mr Putin may
   become his prime minister was also floated two months ago. Yet nobody
   expected Mr Putin simply to do what he had said.

   The choice of Mr Medvedev was first flagged in November 2005, when the
   publicity-shy head of the Kremlin administration was entrusted with
   billions of dollars for social projects and promoted to deputy prime
   minister. A day later Mr Medvedev, in his first big speech, promised a
   better life for ordinary Russians. A year on, when he spoke at the
   World Economic Forum in Davos, he was favoured by 35% of Russians for
   president. "Here was born the future president of Russia," somebody
   scratched in the doorway of Mr Medvedev's old apartment block in St
   Petersburg.

   But then Mr Putin, as befits a former KGB officer, started covering
   his tracks. He raised Sergei Ivanov, the defence minister and another
   ex-KGB man, to the same position as Mr Medvedev. Television mentions
   of Mr Ivanov shot up; soon 37% of Russians said they were ready to
   vote for him. Mr Ivanov was more in tune with Mr Putin's anti-Western
   sabre-rattling. Yet on the day that a leading Russian newspaper tipped
   Mr Ivanov as next prime minister, Mr Putin pulled off another surprise
   by appointing the little-known Viktor Zubkov. He surprised again by
   announcing that he would lead the pro-Kremlin United Russia party in
   the parliamentary election on December 2nd. He suggested that a big
   United Russia win might tempt him to become prime minister, perhaps
   under a pliable Mr Zubkov.

   Then the infighting in the Kremlin started to get out of hand and Mr
   Putin returned to his original plan of making Mr Medvedev president.
   This brought both surprise and relief. Mr Putin's talk of enemies of
   the people and his beating up and jailing of demonstrators were
   followed by the arrest of a liberal deputy finance minister. In the
   circumstances, the choice of a soft-spoken, civilian lawyer seemed a
   palm of peace. Compared with Mr Ivanov and Mr Zubkov, he looks
   liberal. The reaction was that it could have been much worse.
   Germany's Angela Merkel, who criticised Russia's parliamentary
   election, telephoned to say she could work well with Mr Medvedev. But
   it is not Mr Medvedev she may have to work with. For the next day, in
   a final surprise, Mr Medvedev invited Mr Putin to be his prime
   minister.

   The truth is that Mr Medvedev is not an independent politician, but an
   extension of Mr Putin. He comes from Mr Putin's native St Petersburg
   and studied law at the same university. He worked alongside Mr Putin
   in St Petersburg's mayoral office and has not left his side since. In
   Moscow he ran Mr Putin's presidential campaign and chaired Gazprom,
   the gas giant. He was Mr Putin's chief of staff and legal consigliere.
   He is 13 years younger and a few inches shorter, but also a lot less
   confident.

   Mr Medvedev does not come from the siloviki, ex-members of the
   security services who control so much of Mr Putin's Russia; his
   loyalty to Mr Putin is personal. He belongs to what was once the
   Soviet intelligentsia, and is more interested in business than
   rockets. He did not support the arrest of Mikhail Khodorkovsky, an
   oligarch who challenged Mr Putin, and even questioned the prosecutor's
   tactics. Nor does he subscribe to the Kremlin's notion of "sovereign
   democracy". Democracy, he has said, does not need qualifications.

   Yet Andrei Illarionov, a former adviser to Mr Putin and now one of his
   fiercest critics, says it is ridiculous to call Mr Medvedev a liberal.
   When Mr Medvedev was the Kremlin chief of staff, he banned members of
   the administration from talking to the press. Mr Illarionov, who
   frequently broke this order, was reprimanded. The danger, Mr
   Illarionov says, is that Mr Medvedev may try to overcompensate for his
   lack of a security background.

   If Mr Medvedev has liberal instincts, the best way to show them would
   be to run a free and fair presidential election. So far, his big
   selling point is that he is really a Putin-2. The day after he was
   anointed, Mr Medvedev made a televised statement. Reading from an
   autocue, and even imitating Mr Putin's voice and style, he declared:
   "I consider it of utmost importance for our country to keep Vladimir
   Vladimirovich Putin in the highest post of executive power, the post
   of head of government of the Russian Federation."

   The Kremlin line is that the teamwork between Mr Putin as prime
   minister and Mr Medvedev as president will guarantee stability,
   creating a good base for more liberal reforms. Mr Putin has hinted
   that more state companies will, sooner or later, be privatised. So
   far, this has sounded more like a redistribution of property, rather
   than liberal reform.

   As for Mr Putin, he seems still to be keeping his options open. If he
   becomes prime minister it is hard to imagine him answering to Mr
   Medvedev. Whatever the form, Mr Putin will be more popular and more
   powerful than his protg. Under the constitution, the president has
   control over the army and the security services, but this could easily
   be changed by a parliamentary vote. In any event Mr Putin is unlikely
   to part with power. More surprises could be in store, even the revival
   of a once-touted plan for a union with Belarus that might let Mr Putin
   stay president.

   The Kremlin's machinations have revealed a simple truth: that the
   authoritarian system created by Mr Putin in the past eight years does
   not allow an orderly transition of power from one elite to another.
   Kirill Rogov, a political analyst, points out that elections, which in
   a democratic society act as a mechanism for rotating power, have in
   Russia become a mechanism for preserving it.

   This reverses the biggest achievement of Boris Yeltsin's short-lived,
   imperfect democracy: a peaceful transfer of power. The manner in which
   Mr Yeltsin handed power to Mr Putin in December 1999 was not ideal,
   but he did step down and let somebody else take charge. Mr Putin seems
   unable to repeat that. Indeed, so as to hang on to power, he may be
   prepared to undermine the institution of a strong presidency that he
   helped to create.

   For all the talk of stability, Russia is in some ways less stable than
   it was. Mr Putin has been lucky to enjoy an oil boom that filled up
   state coffers and fanned economic growth. But the underlying economy
   has not been diversified or restructured. Inflation is running in
   double digits, domestic gas and electricity prices need to be raised
   and the outlook for the world economy is suddenly gloomier. Yet the
   biggest danger for Russia remains political.

   Russia has traditionally had only one centre of power: the Kremlin.
   There is but one precedent for a strong prime minister and a weak head
   of state. This was 100 years ago when Pyotr Stolypin was prime
   minister under Tsar Nicholas II. Stolypin dealt ruthlessly with
   political protesters to push through reforms to make Russia a leading
   European power. His catch-phrase was: give Russia 20 years of peace,
   and you will not recognise it. But it all ended badly. Stolypin was
   assassinated, Nicholas II murdered by the Bolsheviks--and Russia
   plunged into 73 years of communism.


   The real crisis in Naples is about governance as much as rubbish

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                                      Waste not, want not

   GARBAGE littered on city streets can be not only unhealthy, but also
   politically hazardous. It reminds voters of the fragility of
   civilisation--and can prompt them to turn on their elected
   representatives. Uncollected rubbish helped to undermine the Labour
   government of James Callaghan in Britain's "winter of discontent" in
   1978-79.

   So it is at first sight surprising that Romano Prodi's centre-left
   government should have let the situation in Campania, the region round
   Naples, get so smelly. By January 8th some 60,000 tonnes of garbage
   were piled up in the streets, roughly 5,000 tonnes of it in Naples
   itself. At a rubbish dump outside the city, residents opposed to its
   reopening were fighting nightly battles with the police.

   This crisis is as much about governance as about garbage. It did not
   blow up overnight. Campania has been plagued by refuse trouble for 14
   years. Almost EUR8 billion ($11 billion) has been spent on it. The
   region's garbage collectors stopped their rounds on December 21st,
   because the dumps in and around Naples were full, and an incinerator
   that should have been ready was not. Both developments were wholly
   foreseeable. The centre-left mayor of Naples, Rosa Russo Jervolino,
   warned Mr Prodi of the looming crisis a year ago. Yet nothing was
   done.

   The underlying problem is that Campania has no modern incinerators.
   This is because plans to build them have met determined, and often
   aggressive, opposition from local people. Their protests are
   frequently backed, if not orchestrated, by Campania's powerful
   organised-crime group, the Camorra, which makes succulent profits from
   disposing of waste in illegal dumps (see [3]article). But many
   Neapolitans are genuinely concerned about emissions from the proposed
   incinerators. There has been criticism of their design; and, since
   barely one-eighth of the city's garbage is separated before it is
   collected, there are fears that toxic waste could be burnt along with
   harmless stuff.

   Mr Prodi first sent in the army to clear the garbage from outside
   schools, so that they could reopen after the holiday. Then on January
   8th he announced a set of new measures. He appointed a special
   commissioner, a former national police chief, Gianni De Gennaro, with
   sweeping powers to tackle the garbage mountain. He was given a 120-day
   mandate and guaranteed continued help from the army. Mr Prodi also
   promised three new incinerators and "enough" new landfill sites. He
   gave local authorities four months to bring in segregated collection.
   Otherwise, they will be put under special administration.

   Mr Prodi had earlier said that he intended to solve the Naples garbage
   problem permanently. His plan could do this--if it is carried out. But
   some scepticism is surely in order. Mr De Gennaro is at least the
   seventh Campanian "refuse tsar". The prime minister offered no
   deadline for completing the incinerators, which take some three years
   to build. Nor did he say how he proposed to overcome local opposition
   to the creation of dumps, which can be fiercer even than resistance to
   the building of incinerators.

   At least one measure announced by Mr Prodi will have an immediate
   impact. Other Italian regions are to be allowed to take some of
   Campania's waste. But this is at odds with both Italian and European
   Union legislation (the European Commission is already threatening
   legal proceedings against Italy over Naples's garbage). Mr Prodi
   called it a short-term expedient to allow longer-term measures to be
   enacted. But nothing has proved more elusive in Campania's protracted
   waste crisis than long-term solutions.


   Not enough help from the neighbours


   WINTER in Albania, Europe's second-poorest country (after Moldova), is
   a wretched season, bringing power-cuts of 12 hours a day in the cities
   and 20 hours in the countryside. Hence the brisk import each autumn of
   portable oil-fired generators: without their own private electricity
   supply, the thousands of small businesses that drive the economy would
   collapse.

   This year the electricity shortage is worse than usual. A drought has
   severely reduced water levels in dams that feed the elderly
   hydro-power plants along the Drin river in the north of the country.
   Thirty years ago these were the pride of the late Enver Hoxha's
   Stalinist regime: Albania even exported electricity to Greece and
   Yugoslavia.

   Now the situation is reversed: electricity demand is growing at almost
   three times the European average as more Albanians move to the cities
   and furnish their homes with dishwashers, tumble-dryers and electric
   heaters--paid for by remittances from relatives working abroad. KESh,
   the inefficient and corrupt state electricity utility, struggles to
   send bills to, and collect money from, people living without addresses
   or electricity meters in squatter suburbs around Tirana.

   Albania used to get by with free or heavily subsidised electricity
   imports from Italy, its friendliest neighbour, and with cheap supplies
   from Bulgaria, the region's biggest exporter. But last month two
   Chernobyl-era units were shut down at Kozloduy, Bulgaria's
   nuclear-power complex on the Danube, as a condition of Bulgaria's
   accession to the European Union. That has led to Bulgaria cutting
   electricity exports by more than two-thirds--and so to soaring energy
   prices in the Balkans. Meanwhile, Albania's electricity shortage is
   showing up in slower economic growth and less foreign investment than
   elsewhere in the western Balkans.

   In an attempt to find a solution, the World Bank, Italian energy
   companies and private consultancies have come up with a stream of
   proposals to modernise hydro-power plants, reduce transmission losses
   and build new power stations close to fast-growing towns in the centre
   and south of the country. But only one large project has made
   progress. After several years of foot-dragging by the energy ministry,
   an Italian company has won a tender to build a 100-megawatt oil-fired
   plant at Vlore in Albania's south. It should start producing
   electricity in 2010.

   With local elections due on February 18th, Sali Berisha, the prime
   minister, is under attack for letting the lights go out. Voters are
   poised to punish his Democratic Party for not delivering on its
   promise at the general election in 2005 to clean up KESh and provide
   cheap, year-round power. Last month he made a joint appeal with Sergey
   Stanishev, his Bulgarian counterpart, for units 3 and 4 at Kozloduy to
   stay open (units 1 and 2 are already closed; units 5 and 6 are more
   modern and safer). Bulgarians argue in Brussels that Balkan countries
   need as much energy as the region can produce if they are to grow
   faster.

   Andris Piebalgs, the EU energy commissioner, is not convinced. On
   February 1st he told Mr Berisha that instead of teaming up with the
   Bulgarians to demand special treatment he should do more to sort
   things out at home. This was not quite the pre-election response Mr
   Berisha had been hoping for.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   Italian anti-Americanism costs Romano Prodi his job 

   THE parliamentary tornado that ripped through Romano Prodi's
   centre-left government on February 21st, prompting its leader to
   resign, showed how dangerous it can be for a European government to be
   seen to be backing the Bush administration. The same day Tony Blair,
   George Bush's closest ally, announced the departure of some British
   troops from Iraq, Italy's prime minister was humiliated in a crucial
   parliamentary vote, centring on Italy's involvement in Afghanistan.

   As President Giorgio Napolitano began consulting party representatives
   on a possible replacement for the prime minister, the cause of Mr
   Prodi's troubles looked more significant than their immediate result.
   Rather than forcing Italy's long-suffering voters back to the polls
   (this was the 61st government since 1945) the president was expected
   to try for a cabinet headed by someone more widely acceptable in
   parliament, or even for a remodelled Prodi administration. The
   outgoing coalition's core parties quickly said they would support Mr
   Prodi again.

   Mr Prodi actually won the vote in Italy's Senate by 158 votes to 136
   with 24 abstentions. But abstentions count as votes against, so the
   formal result was a two-vote defeat. It was not, technically, a
   confidence vote, so Mr Prodi did not need to step down. But his
   foreign minister, Massimo D'Alema, had just said that defeat would
   mean it was time for "everyone to go home". Exultant representatives
   of the centre-right, which is led by the media proprietor and former
   prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, pounced on his undertaking. Holding
   aloft a copy of a newspaper headlining the pledge, Mr Berlusconi's
   chief whip in the upper house cried: "There is no Prodi government any
   more. The Prodi government has fallen in this chamber." When news
   reached the lower house, the Chamber of Deputies, scuffles broke out
   between government and opposition. Over a hundred people gathered
   outside Mr Prodi's office chanting "Resign, resign".

   Behind the defeat lay profound divisions over foreign policy within Mr
   Prodi's government. In recent weeks two largely separate issues have
   become perilously entwined. One is Italy's contribution to
   Afghanistan's International Security Assistance Force (ISAF). Since Mr
   Prodi pulled Italian forces out of Iraq last year, the left-most
   members of his sprawling, nine-party coalition, which includes Greens,
   Christian centrists, ex-communists and radical leftists, have
   increasingly focused their attention on ISAF. Though the mission has a
   United Nations mandate, it is NATO-run, jarring the Italian left's
   strong pacifist and anti-American sensibilities. Three ministers
   walked out of the cabinet rather than sign off extra funding for the
   Afghan force, which has yet to be endorsed by parliament.

   Amid growing concern about Italy's wobbly commitment to ISAF, the
   ambassadors of six other participants published an open letter,
   appealing for continued support. That may have backfired: Mr D'Alema,
   a staunch backer of ISAF, angrily dismissed the move as interference
   by outsiders in Italy's democracy. The Chamber of Deputies, where the
   government has a bigger majority, was due to start debating the
   funding on February 26th; it must go to the Senate by mid-March. That
   is why a reckoning in parliament on the government's foreign policy
   had become urgently needed.

   The day before the Senate vote, Mr Prodi sealed a deal with the
   majority of the doubters in his camp by promising to use a meeting on
   Afghanistan in Rome, due by May, to prepare a future peace conference
   (to which some on the left would like to invite the Taliban). But this
   proved too little for two far-left senators, who withheld their votes.

   They and other radicals were equally exercised by the government's
   readiness to agree to the expansion of an American military base at
   Vicenza in northern Italy. On February 17th, some 70,000
   people--including leading figures in the governing coalition--marched
   in protest at the plan. Mr Prodi swiftly declared that he did not
   intend changing a 50 year-old defence policy, based on the three
   pillars of the European Union, the UN and NATO.

   Fine words. But barely a week later, that once-uncontroversial
   approach to Italy's alliances had ended in disaster. The implications
   go beyond foreign policy. The outgoing government had an urgent
   domestic reform agenda. A crisis like this, even if it leads to a
   remodelled Prodi government, raises big questions once more over the
   ability of a humbled and disconcerted centre-left to push through the
   painful changes that Italy needs.


   The biggest fault in Italian education is that there are too many old
   teachers

   THE Bar Cristal, beneath an elevated section of Rome's inner ringway,
   caters mostly to travellers from the nearby bus and rail stations. But
   by 7.30am most days, it is packed with teachers, many of whom have
   come from as far away as Naples. They are part of Italy's army of
   150,000 casual teachers, waiting for a call to teach in a
   short-staffed school. Darting between classrooms, they tack together
   take-home pay of EUR1,100 ($1,500) a month.

   Earlier this month Romano Prodi's centre-left government enacted a law
   to give full-time jobs to a third of these freelance educators. The
   plan is to absorb all of them by 2009. This reflects a wish to improve
   the consistency and standard of teaching. But it also responds to
   recent incidents suggesting Italy's teachers have lost control.

   Scenes videoed on mobile phones and posted on the internet have shown
   a 12-year-old girl performing oral sex in class, a teacher with a gun
   at his head and a handicapped pupil being roughed up by his
   classmates. In another case, a 16-year-old boy threw himself to his
   death, apparently because of taunting over his alleged homosexuality.
   Teachers argue that such incidents are untypical. But few deny that
   the education system has big problems--and that its shortcomings are
   one cause of Italy's struggling economy.

   Since 2000 successive reports from the OECD's Programme for
   International Student Assessment have shattered the belief that
   Italian schools are among Europe's best. The most recent put them near
   the bottom of the heap. In maths Italy's 15-year-olds were
   outperformed by their peers in all but three OECD countries. Almost a
   third were "unable to display the minimum level of mathematics
   proficiency needed to succeed in their professional and private life".
   The share of young adults with essential qualifications was far below
   the OECD average.

   No similarly exhaustive comparison has been done for tertiary
   education. But that so many young Italians study abroad, and so few
   young foreigners (2% of all foreign students) do in Italy, points to
   equally low standards at university level.

   The teachers' unions like to stress Italy's relatively low public
   spending on education as a share of GDP. Scant investment may hold
   back the universities: spending on core tertiary education is 30%
   below the OECD average. But it is rising per student, as a low birth
   rate reduces the number of matriculations. As for schools, spending
   per primary- and secondary-school pupil is actually above the OECD
   average. The OECD suggests that its allocation is faulty, with too
   much cash going to a "large number of comparatively poorly paid
   teachers", who work long hours in schools with low teacher-student
   ratios.

   But there is another explanation. As in much of Italy, a logjam blocks
   young entrants. This explains the morning crowd at the Bar Cristal. It
   may lie behind the breakdown of discipline in classrooms. In 2001 90%
   of upper secondary teachers were over 40, compared with an OECD
   average of two-thirds. A mere 0.1% were under 30 (against 11% in all
   rich countries).

   The incorporation of tens of thousands of youthful casual teachers
   will be a step in the right direction. But matters are worse in
   universities, where patronage, cronyism and secure tenure are the
   rule. A study by Corriere della Sera in January showed that a full 30%
   of top academics and 10% of lecturers were over 65. Only nine of the
   country's 18,651 senior academics are under 35, compared with 7% in
   America and fully 16% in Britain. In education, as in far too many
   walks of Italian life, it is grey power that rules.


   Ukraine is in political crisis again. Is there a way out?


   THE tents and flags are back in Independence Square; shots of the
   crowd again beam from giant screens to make them feel strong. The
   tactics are borrowed from the orange revolution of 2004; but the heart
   is missing. Speakers strive in vain to rouse the masses--some drunk,
   many seemingly paid to attend. At a protest encampment near the Rada,
   Ukraine's parliament, the carnival atmosphere of 2004 has been
   replaced by one of surliness.

   This shabby parody was provoked by the decision last week of Viktor
   Yushchenko, whom the revolution swept to Ukraine's presidency, to
   dissolve the Rada and call an early parliamentary election for May
   27th. The Rada's majority and the government say the president's
   decree is unconstitutional. Both are headed by Viktor Yanukovich, who
   was beaten in 2004 but became prime minister again last year.

   Mr Yushchenko's team says, as his adviser Oleg Rybachuk puts it, that
   Mr Yanukovich has himself "ignored all the constitutional blah blah
   blah" since he returned to office, constantly encroaching on Mr
   Yushchenko's authority, and using blackmail and bribery to amass a
   majority big enough to emasculate the president altogether. (Mr
   Yanukovich's people retort that the members they have turned are too
   rich to need bribing.) The government is refusing to organise the
   vote. Mr Yanukovich's Party of the Regions (PRU), and its Communist
   and Socialist allies, are refusing to participate in it, until
   Ukraine's constitutional court rules on the legality of the
   president's dissolution decree.

   Some of the court's judges this week complained of threats and
   pressure, delaying the hearing. Mr Yanukovich deployed a mix of menace
   (threats of impeachment, thousands bused into Kiev for his rallies)
   and compromise to persuade Mr Yushchenko to back down. But the
   president is not inclined to. Attending an Orthodox Easter service, he
   said he was determined to "cleanse the temple of the Pharisees and
   money-changers". Mr Rybachuk says Mr Yanukovich's lot are gangsters
   who respond only to force.

   On April 11th a way out of the impasse involving an election, but not
   as soon as May, suddenly looked likely. Prolonged instability would
   not suit the business tycoons who stand behind Mr Yanukovich. But less
   comfortable outcomes are still possible, such as a court ruling after
   the election that retroactively invalidates it. A more immediate
   danger is violence. This week riot police were positioned between
   Independence Square and a rival, pro-president rally staged (with
   better music) nearby. Mr Yushchenko's strong support in the capital,
   crucial in 2004, and his control of most of the security services,
   might prove decisive if the crisis deepens.

   Optimists see this latest Ukrainian stand-off as a product of the
   youth and fragility of its democratic institutions, and especially of
   a fudged constitutional reform agreed in 2004. They hope that a fresh
   election, plus some constitutional tinkering, will produce cleaner and
   more stable politics--even if, as Yuri Yakimenko, a Kiev pollster,
   says is likely, the new Rada ends up looking much like the present
   one. The only change might be that the Socialists, who betrayed their
   supporters by joining Mr Yanukovich, fail to get in. There will
   doubtless also be much talk of reviving the old orange alliance
   between Mr Yushchenko's party and Yulia Tymoshenko, his revolutionary
   ally and one-time prime minister, for whom every crisis brings fresh
   opportunity.

   The trouble is that, whatever its constitutional arrangements, Ukraine
   will for the foreseeable future be governed by corrupt, discredited
   politicians. Mr Yanukovich and his gang seem to treat
   everything--judges, parliamentary seats, protesters--as commodities
   for sale. To them the orange revolution was a paid-for confidence
   trick. But the revolutionaries themselves emerged from the same
   post-Soviet regime. Many were motivated by greed as much as principle,
   and afterwards felt entitled to political and financial rewards.

   Worse, beneath the struggle for power and assets lies a deeper schism,
   which Mr Yushchenko has failed to bridge. Although he roused only
   half-hearted cheers at his Kiev rally, Mr Yanukovich unquestionably
   commands wide support in south and east Ukraine. Old geopolitical
   loyalties are part of the explanation. "Yushchenko is Bush's puppet,"
   said one of the livelier protesters in the square, wearing a Red Army
   cap and carrying a placard showing George Bush as a Nazi. The
   Americans, she added, need Ukraine for their war with Russia.

   But there are other differences between Mr Yanukovich's backers and
   the western and central Ukrainians who mostly support his opponents.
   The east suffered in the Stalinist famine of the 1930s and inherited a
   political culture that combines narrow paternalistic expectations with
   profound cynicism. Easterners despised Mr Yushchenko in 2004 because,
   to them, his promises of a new sort of government were so much cant.

   That cynicism has not been wholly vindicated. Ukraine now has freer
   media and more assertive citizens. Even today's rancour can be seen as
   evidence of political pluralism, at least when compared with the
   situation in neighbouring Russia. But, thanks to the orange leaders'
   shortcomings and squabbles, neither have the cynics turned out to be
   completely wrong.


   Ukraine's president dissolves parliament. Maybe


   SIT-INS, blockades and fisticuffs are routine distractions in the
   Rada, Ukraine's parliament. But this week's chaos was unusual even by
   Ukrainian standards. After a big demonstration last weekend urged him
   on, President Viktor Yushchenko signed a decree on April 2nd to
   dissolve parliament and call a fresh election for May 27th. In the
   Rada, the ruling coalition promptly denounced the president and
   refused to budge. Each side now accuses the other of usurping power.

   Mr Yushchenko's immediate worry was a run of defections from his
   party, Our Ukraine, and the one led by Yulia Tymoshenko, his ally
   during the "orange revolution" of 2004. Ms Tymoshenko later became his
   prime minister, until her alliance with the president drowned in a
   mire of corruption allegations in 2005. The government is now led by
   Viktor Yanukovich, whom Mr Yushchenko defeated in the presidential
   race that sparked the revolution, but who became prime minister
   (again) last August. The methods used to swell the ranks of his
   parliamentary coalition are widely rumoured to include bribery and
   blackmail.

   The dodgy recruitment drive is the latest phase of a campaign to
   emasculate Mr Yushchenko, which began at the start of the unlikely
   cohabitation of the two Viktors. A constitutional reform agreed on
   during the orange revolution transferred some of the president's
   functions to parliament. Another law passed in January, with the help
   of the opportunistic Ms Tymoshenko, weakened Mr Yushchenko further.
   His efforts to nominate a foreign minister were repeatedly frustrated,
   as was his foreign policy itself.

   The coalition's leaders are now openly bent on amassing a majority big
   enough to override the presidential veto and strip Mr Yushchenko of
   his residual powers. It sounds like the sort of constitutional
   fine-tuning to be expected in a young democracy. In Ukraine, alas,
   disputes that may seem like issues of principle are often disguised
   struggles for wealth. Politicians' attitudes to any given office
   depend on their prospects of occupying it. Beyond the Rada, the
   country is worryingly divided between Yanukovich supporters in the
   east and south, and those mostly in Kiev and the west who want a more
   enlightened government.

   Many in this second camp, who have despaired of Mr Yushchenko's
   indecisiveness, were gleeful over the dissolution. But there are two
   reasons for caution. One is that, if the election goes ahead, it may
   produce a parliament that is just as fractious and corrupt as the
   existing one, which took almost six months after the previous election
   just to produce a government. Mr Yanukovich's Party of the Regions
   could even emerge stronger. The country may thus be fated to endure
   yet more political horsetrading and backstabbing--unless and until the
   entire ruling group of venal politicians is replaced.

   The other trouble is that there may not be an election at all. The
   legal basis for the president's dissolution is questionable, and Mr
   Yanukovich's lot have referred it to the constitutional court--though
   the chances of a timely ruling that is not tainted by threats and
   bribery are remote. Some in Moscow note the similarities to the
   Russian stand-off of 1993, which ended with Boris Yeltsin's tanks
   shelling Russia's parliament. Ukraine's defence minister says the army
   is loyal to the president; the police answer to the government.

   Meanwhile, anti-dissolution tent camps have sprung up in Kiev. For
   outside observers, the tents that housed the orange revolutionaries
   became symbols of peaceful democratic protest. For Ukraine's
   politicians, they have become just another way of getting what you
   want.


   The Turks ponder a cross-border incursion into northern Iraq


   ON JUNE 6th a premature report of a big Turkish invasion of northern
   Iraq rocked markets. Certainly thousands of Turkish troops, backed by
   tanks and artillery, have massed for a possible offensive against
   Kurdish PKK rebels in Iraq. Martial law has been declared in three of
   Turkey's Kurdish provinces. This follows rising violence against
   soldiers in Turkey. On June 4th seven Turkish soldiers died when
   Kurdish rebels raided an outpost in the province of Tunceli. In May
   six civilians were killed by a suspected PKK suicide-bomber in Ankara.

   All this increases the pressure on Turkey's prime minister, Recep
   Tayyip Erdogan, to strike the PKK in its mountain strongholds in Iraq.
   General Yasar Buyukanit, chief of the general staff, has called a
   putative cross-border incursion "necessary" and "useful". Deniz
   Baykal, the main opposition leader, is in favour.

   But the American defence secretary, Robert Gates, said this week that
   the United States was squarely opposed to unilateral Turkish action,
   which would destabilise the only calmish bit of Iraq. The Americans
   would prefer the Turks to use the Iraqi Kurds to help them make peace
   with the PKK. The PKK itself wants to draw more Turkish forces into
   Iraq (the Turks have kept some 1,000 soldiers there since an incursion
   in the 1990s) because, as a source suggests, "this could provoke armed
   confrontation between Turkey and America." It would also upset the
   European Union.

   A few days before this week's alleged invasion, two American fighter
   jets had strayed from Iraq into Turkish airspace. The Americans said
   this was an "accident", but some Turks saw a warning that America
   might side with the Kurds against them. Yet most Americans acknowledge
   that their refusal to heed Turkish calls to attack the PKK is now the
   main cause of rampant anti-Americanism in Turkey. Catching a few PKK
   ringleaders could improve matters.

   The Iraqi Kurds are unwilling to co-operate mainly because they see
   the PKK as a bargaining chip to get the Turks to recognise their
   quasi-independent status in Iraq. The Turks are against a referendum
   in Kirkuk this December that might lead it to join the Kurdish region.

   Massoud Barzani, the Iraqi Kurdish leader, threatens trouble in
   Turkey's mostly Kurdish south-eastern provinces, where his popularity
   is now starting to rival that of the captured PKK leader, Abdullah
   Ocalan. Most Iraqi Kurds consider their quasi-independent state as the
   real target of any Turkish incursion. But after two decades of battle,
   some 16 cross-border incursions and 40,000 dead, Turkey's leaders,
   military and civilian alike, know that force alone cannot solve
   Turkey's Kurdish problem.

   The generals may have another reason for sabre-rattling. By insisting
   on government approval to strike in Iraq, they are shifting the blame
   for the violence to the Americans and the Iraqi Kurds--and to Mr
   Erdogan. With each Turkish casualty Mr Erdogan risks losing
   nationalist votes. Yet if he orders a full invasion, Turkey may just
   get bogged down and face new enemies.


   Money brings organised crime to Basilicata

   THE landscape is the same: arid grey hills dropping steeply to a plain
   through which the River Agri flows. Even Aliano, a cluster of houses
   poised above ravines, appears much as it did when Mussolini banished
   Carlo Levi there in 1935. Of course, a lot has changed since Levi
   wrote "Christ Stopped at Eboli", about the people and poverty he
   found. Aliano today has water, electricity, roads and schools. Public
   money and private remittances have brought consumer goods. Malaria was
   beaten 50 years ago. Locals' lives have improved far beyond what Levi
   could ever have imagined.

   But all around are regions racked with organised crime. Puglia has the
   Sacra Corona Unita, Campania the Camorra and Calabria the worst of the
   lot, the 'Ndrangheta (this week a feud within the 'Ndrangheta reached
   as far as Germany, when six Italians were shot dead near Duisburg
   railway station). Now even Basilicata, with a population of only
   600,000, has criminals of its own.

   Flourishing fruit farms and a tourist boom along the Ionian coast have
   been the main lure. "Nobody was aware of what was happening until
   bombs began exploding. And then there were murders," laments Filippo
   Mele, a former mayor of Scanzano Jonico. Police operations have put
   dozens in jail, but any vacuum is soon filled.

   About 100km (60 miles) from Scanzano Jonico, the villages of the upper
   Agri sit near a big oilfield. Special measures were tried to stop
   organised crime muscling in when oil production began a decade ago,
   but the bonanza has brought an inflow of public money. The region and
   local villages share royalties expected to be worth EUR750m ($1
   billion) over the next 15 years. Oil and coastal rackets are not the
   only objects of the criminals' interest. Public funds poured in after
   an earthquake in 1980; EU farm subsidies are another tempting target.

   A fog of suspicion also clouds local institutions. On August 6th a
   judge in Potenza, the regional capital, ordered the suspension of
   eight officials who had vetted projects for EU subsidies. Even the law
   is suspect. Last spring the chief prosecutor in Potenza retired early.
   "Incompatibility with local surroundings" has led to transfers for a
   prosecutor and the court's president in Matera, Basilicata's second
   city.

   Luigi de Magistris, a magistrate from Calabria whose investigations
   have shaken Basilicata's magistracy, worries about what is happening.
   "There is a virus, but no anti-virus. There is collusion between
   businessmen and politicians of left, right and centre, and within the
   state there are those who are anti-state," he says. Alas, where public
   institutions are absent, weak or worse, it tends to be the organised
   criminals who step in to make the law.


   The UN's troubling departure from Ingushetia

   EVEN by the standards of the Caucasus, the two little-noticed
   rocket-propelled grenade attacks in March on the United Nations'
   office compound in Nazran, the main city of the republic of
   Ingushetia, were worrying. One of Russia's poorest provinces, it hosts
   thousands of refugees, and is supposedly a safe base for international
   agencies working in neighbouring Chechnya. The bombardment gave the
   lie to Kremlin claims that life in the region is "normal". But the
   real story of the decision by the World Health Organisation, the World
   Food Programme, UNICEF and others to pull their expat staff out to
   Vladikavkaz has a still more alarming aspect.

   The Economist understands that the attacks followed a dispute about
   money between the UN's security department and the bit of the Ingush
   interior ministry responsible for guarding their compound. The UN
   apparently resisted a demand by the guards that it pay for all their
   other work at the compound (which is used by other outfits too).

   Officially, all sides deny any disagreement. A UN official in the
   region pooh-poohs a link with the grenade attacks as "half-arsed". Yet
   some UN-niks have been heard to say that their supposed protectors
   have been harassing them. Curiously, one of the two grenades narrowly
   missed the building used by the UN security team. The other one hit
   it.

   The unlikely good cop in this sorry tale seems to be Russia's infamous
   Federal Security Service. It warned the UN about further violence, and
   of a serious threat of kidnapping. Foreign UN staff now avoid even
   travelling through Ingushetia, for example en route to Chechnya. The
   Ingush government has reportedly offered sympathy but little else. No
   wonder: bombings, killings and kidnappings are commonplace there,
   driven by a dizzying mix of politics, religion and revenge. Two
   members of the Ingush president's family have been snatched. The
   security services are both victims and perpetrators of the chaos.

   For all its oil-fuelled bravado, the Kremlin all too often fails to
   meet its people's basic needs, relying instead on outside agencies and
   charities (it routinely accuses the latter of espionage). It seems
   that Russia--a permanent member of the UN Security Council--may be
   unable to protect that organisation's staff from its own state
   servants. Unable, or unwilling: it can be hard to tell if corruption
   happens against the Kremlin's wishes, or with its blessing.


                                                                      EPA

                                    EPA

   Mikheil Saakashvili is duly re-elected as Georgia's president, but he
   is a somewhat chastened man


   ON THE night of January 5th, as Georgians voted in a presidential
   election, men in uniform were throwing snowballs. A Christmas fair
   cheered up Rustaveli Avenue, Tbilisi's main street. Anything that
   could be illuminated was. All normal in some places--but a novelty in
   Georgia.

   Four years ago, when Mikheil Saakashvili and his supporters, armed
   with roses, stormed parliament and seized power, Georgia was in
   freefall and Rustaveli Avenue was barely lit. It had been the scene of
   violence by Soviet troops, and then of civil war. Since Mr Saakashvili
   came to office, Tbilisi has been transformed. The economy is booming
   and foreigners are flocking to invest. This is more impressive since
   Georgia has almost no mineral resources and is under Russian embargo.

   Merab Kuchukhidze, selling toys at the Christmas fair, voted for Mr
   Saakashvili because "I want this to continue." That is why Mr
   Saakashvili got 52% of the vote in a country he has subjected to
   radical reform. But still last November 50,000 Georgians came out on
   the streets to protest against poverty, rising prices and injustice.
   The protest ended in violence and a state of emergency. Even when
   Georgia seems normal, a crisis is not far off.

   In November Mr Saakashvili, the darling of the West, sent riot police
   with truncheons, water cannons and tear-gas to disperse the crowds.
   Special forces shut down and vandalised the Imedi television station,
   the main news outlet for the opposition. The disproportionate use of
   force shocked Mr Saakashvili's Western friends and repulsed most
   Georgians.

   Yet Mr Saakashvili is unrepentant. He says the use of force was
   justified by the threat of a coup. Opposition leaders, he claims, were
   planning to storm parliament and overthrow the government. Imedi,
   owned by a tycoon, Badri Patarkatsishvili, was spreading provocative
   disinformation. (A few weeks later Georgia's security services taped
   Mr Patarkatsishvili in London offering $100m to a state official to
   precipitate a coup. This information was embarrassing enough for Imedi
   journalists to stage a strike against their owner.)

   At the time Mr Saakashvili implied that Russia, Georgia's main
   adversary, was behind the instability. "Stop blaming Russia for your
   domestic problems," the opposition said. They had a point. The crisis,
   unnoticed by the West, had been building for some time and was largely
   brought on by the president himself. His reforms have cut deep into
   Georgia's way of life. To fight corruption, he fired 30,000 policemen
   and slashed the bureaucracy. He liberalised the economy more than most
   European countries: anything that could be privatised was. Unlike his
   predecessor, Mr Saakashvili showed no reverence for the old
   intelligentsia and little respect for seniority. He brought in a new
   Western-educated elite that was aloof and efficient. If you are over
   40 and don't speak English, you are a nobody, some Georgians complain.

   A backlash was inevitable. "If, after all this, we got 80% of the
   votes, it would have meant we had done something wrong," Mr
   Saakashvili says in an interview. But it was his style that infuriated
   even some supporters. He spared no time burnishing his credentials
   abroad, but did not explain his policies to the voters. He bragged
   about his reforms but showed little compassion for those they left
   behind. He admits he was insensitive and that some of his liberal
   policies were inflexible and too harsh. His election message, devised
   by American advisers, was: "I listened, I heard, I understand."
   Billboards showing Mr Saakashvili looking after the old and frail
   advertised "Georgia without poverty".

   The opposition says this was cynical. "As if he did not know about the
   social problems in the country," says Salome Zourabichvili, a former
   foreign minister who is now in opposition. Besides, she adds, the
   demonstrations were about the principles of democracy and justice. She
   accuses Mr Saakashvili of usurping power and undermining the legal
   system and property rights. For David Usupashvili, the most moderate
   of the opposition leaders, the question is "whether we have a
   government working within a rule of law or do we have a team of `good
   guys' who cut corners in the name of reform."

   The protesters first demanded that Mr Saakashvili hold a parliamentary
   election next spring. But its call for Mr Saakashvili to resign
   backfired when he called an early presidential election for which the
   opposition was unprepared. Levan Gachechiladze, the candidate it put
   up against him, was no match for Mr Saakashvili's political experience
   or charisma. Being nondescript was not enough. "He talks little and
   does not promise anything," one of his own supporters said
   approvingly.

   Yet the protest vote against Mr Saakashvili, particularly in Tbilisi,
   was big enough to give Mr Gachechiladze 26% of the vote. The election
   itself was imperfect. Mr Saakashvili exploited his presidential
   position during the campaign, and the media were biased. There were
   incidents of intimidation and pressure. But international observers
   said it had passed the test of a democratic election. It was certainly
   the most competitive one in Georgia's history. Until now, says Ghia
   Nodia, a political analyst, "power in Georgia had always been
   contested on the streets, while elections were simply a way of
   endorsing it."

   Contesting political power in an election still seems unorthodox to
   many Georgians. Georgi Khaindrava, a former minister, predicted
   fatalistically that if Mr Saakashvili won more than 50% of votes, it
   would mean the election had been rigged. When the election commission
   said Mr Saakashvili had scored enough votes to avoid a second round,
   the opposition cried foul, staged a protest and later burst into its
   offices. Tolerance is a rare commodity in Georgian politics on either
   side. "If you compare Mr Saakashvili with the opposition, he is still
   more democratic," says Mr Nodia.

   However imperfect, the election has delivered some good results.
   First, it has left Mr Saakashvili in power. Georgia's problem was not
   lack of pluralism but a malfunctioning state, which Mr Saakashvili is
   still the best man to fix. Second, the election gave him only a thin
   majority, which has had a sobering effect on him. "I am used to
   winning elections with percentages in the high 70s," he says. Many
   Georgians want him to stay but with reduced support; they may vote
   against his party in the parliamentary election.

   Mr Saakashvili appears to have learnt his lesson. "It is much better
   to have a mainstream opposition in parliament, than a marginalised
   opposition on the streets," he concedes. He has promised to offer the
   opposition jobs in the government, and called for a truce with Russia.
   Mr Saakashvili has also revealed that Georgian officials have recently
   had informal discussions with Russian officials, who have hinted that
   Russia may soon lift its embargo.

   The election also taught a lesson to Georgia's Western friends: that
   unqualified support for one man may not always be in Georgia's best
   interest. Like many modernisers (his role-model is Ataturk), Mr
   Saakashvili has autocratic instincts. The problem is that when
   democratic institutions are weak, a benevolent autocrat can turn into
   a malign one. So the best thing the West can do is to provide some
   checks and balances. A chastened President Saakashvili may just be a
   better leader for Georgia.


   A surprising boost in revenues fuels a debate about tax cuts 

   BY THE standards of his predecessors, Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa, Italy's
   finance minister, is luck personified. Cash has rained into the
   treasury. In the first eight months of 2007, income- and corporate-tax
   receipts rose by 21%. The government says this is thanks to its
   clampdown on tax evasion. It reckons that EUR270 billion ($370
   billion), or a fifth of GDP, was going unpaid each year (95% of
   Italians claim to earn less than EUR40,000).

   Thwarted evasion, however, accounts for less than half the revenue
   increase. Another factor is that the economy is enjoying a rare spurt
   of growth: GDP is expected to rise by 2% this year. The opposition
   prefers to stress that Italians now pay more taxes at higher rates. Mr
   Padoa-Schioppa's first budget raised the top income-tax bracket to
   43%. For those who pay their due, Italy is now an onerous place. What
   is more, taxpayers get miserable value for money. Public spending in
   Italy is higher than in Germany, if lower than in France (see chart).
   But the clincher is that public-sector pay is high and the quality of
   public services is among the worst in Europe.

   That imbalance fuels growing impatience with the politicians. On
   September 8th Beppe Grillo, a comedian, set out to gather signatures
   for a petition calling for changes to the electoral and parliamentary
   rules. He hoped for 50,000 signatures, but got six times as many.
   Umberto Bossi, leader of the Northern League, recently proposed a tax
   strike. He has since back-tracked to propose a boycott of state-run
   lotteries, but not before winning the support of a respected
   employers' representative for his more radical idea.

   That was a sign of exasperation in business, notably in the north. The
   employers' leader, Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, has called the high
   level of corporate tax an "emergency" and urged the government to trim
   it. Yet the left-wing parties in Romano Prodi's coalition want any
   extra revenues used to mitigate social inequality.

   Caught between these demands, Mr Padoa-Schioppa feels anything but
   fortunate. His reaction is to remind people that Italy has vast debt;
   that the interest soaks up cash that could be spent on infrastructure
   and welfare; and that the tax bonanza has done little more than smooth
   progress towards the aim of cutting debt to below 100% of GDP by 2010.
   This point is the more pertinent since there are signs that the
   economy is losing puff. It grew by only 0.1% in the second quarter.

   Mr Padoa-Schioppa has so far resisted calls for tax cuts and argued
   that, far from raising spending, the government should cut it. He has
   circulated a "green book" to ministers with tips on how to curb their
   departments' spending. So far, he has been backed by Mr Prodi. But,
   with many on the right of the coalition calling for tax cuts, and the
   government appearing to be more unpopular than ever in the polls, the
   pressure to give way is growing.


   The government survives--and stirs a debate on responses to kidnappers
   
   ROMANO PRODI'S shaky centre-left government this week laid to rest, at
   least for now, the issue that almost caused it to collapse last month.
   On March 27th the upper-house Senate voted to keep paying for Italian
   troops abroad. Some 2,000 are in Afghanistan, where Italy's engagement
   is a source of anguished misgiving for the radical and pacifist left.
   Mr Prodi can no longer count on a majority in the Senate; in February
   a rebellion by two far-left senators, prompted by Afghanistan, almost
   brought his government down.

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                          A freedom fag for Mastrogiacomo

   This week, Mr Prodi won a majority thanks to support from unelected
   life senators and from rebels within the centre-right opposition. That
   made the outcome more damaging to the main opposition leader, Silvio
   Berlusconi. Mr Berlusconi saw the vote as a chance to defeat the
   government, but others on the right felt they could not refuse support
   for Italian troops. They included a member of Mr Berlusconi's own
   party and all 20 senators from the Union of Christian Democrats (UDC),
   the third-biggest party in the centre-right alliance that lost the
   election in April 2006.

   With one former UDC senator having already deserted to the
   centre-left, there is speculation that the party could become a
   semi-detached backer of Mr Prodi. The UDC's leader, Pier Ferdinando
   Casini, has ruled this out. But he appeared to leave open the
   possibility of joining a rejigged coalition, arguing that Italy needs
   a more stable government. Unfortunately, the UDC, whose power base is
   in the south, is notoriously chary of the liberal economic reforms
   that Italy also needs.

   Since the lower house had already approved an identical motion on
   funding, Italy's contribution to the NATO-led forces in Afghanistan is
   assured for another year. Yet the ripples caused by Italy's anguish
   over Afghanistan continue to spread--and this week lapped at NATO
   itself. NATO's secretary-general, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, said that he
   would begin talks over forming a common response to hostage-taking.
   His initiative seems to have been prompted by Italy's handling of the
   March 4th kidnapping by the Taliban of an Italian journalist, Daniele
   Mastrogiacomo.

   In Italy the kidnap revived misgivings about any involvement in
   Afghanistan, increasing the risk of a government defeat in the Senate.
   But it also teased out some big differences between Italy and most of
   its allies. Italy is influenced by Roman Catholic views on the
   sanctity of life. It also has a history of paying ransom money.

   It is not clear if the Taliban were after a degree of political
   acceptance or concrete gains. But they got both: talks, albeit
   indirect, with the Italian authorities, and the release of five
   prisoners (including, reportedly, the brother of the Taliban's top
   commander, Mullah Dadullah). The five men had been held by the Afghan
   authorities, who said they were freed "because we value our relations
   and friendship with Italy". This remark suggests that the Italians had
   threatened to breach the allies' united front in Afghanistan if they
   did not get what they wanted.

   Italy is not the only country to have struck a deal with insurgents.
   Germany is suspected of paying several multi-million dollar ransoms,
   notably for the release in 2005 of an archaeologist held in Iraq. But
   Mr Mastrogiacomo was the latest of at least half a dozen Italian
   hostages in different parts of the world who are thought to have been
   ransomed in the past two years. And rarely has a deal been as openly
   acknowledged as this one. NATO is right to be debating the problem.


   What a reduction in abstraction says about the new France


   OF ALL the novelties of France under President Nicolas Sarkozy, one of
   the more arresting is the decline of the abstract noun. In the past,
   no French leader would make a speech without liberal doses of destiny
   and history. In one speech Mr Sarkozy's predecessor, Jacques Chirac,
   squeezed 13 abstract nouns--unity, liberty, humanity and more--into a
   single sentence. He was almost outdone by his prime minister (and
   part-time poet), Dominique de Villepin, who came up with the
   declaration: "Globalisation is not an ideal, it cannot be our
   destiny."

   The contrast with the wordcraft of Mr Sarkozy is instructive. In his
   first big foreign-policy speech, he managed in 18 pages to utter
   neither the word glory nor the word grandeur. Unlike his British
   counterparts, who favour verbless sentences, Mr Sarkozy is a
   verbaholic. According to a linguistic analysis of his campaign
   speeches by Damon Mayaffre, of the University of Nice, one of Mr
   Sarkozy's most frequent words is I, usually followed by the verb want.

   What does this say about France? One answer is that the country has a
   hyperactive president, constantly on the go, who expects the French to
   be so too. "Work more to earn more" was his slogan, and his use of
   verbs matches the message. This is a man who likes to jog, where
   previous presidents preferred a dignified stroll. Indeed, his
   predilection prompted Libration, a left-leaning newspaper, to ask,
   "Is jogging right-wing?" It even moved a philosopher, Alain
   Finkielkraut, to implore the president to take up the promenade--a
   "spiritual experience"--and to give up jogging, which is mere "body
   management".

   Another explanation is that Mr Sarkozy is challenging the French
   tradition of conceptualism. Intellectuals, long cherished by the
   establishment, get short shrift now. "It's an old national habit:
   France is a country that thinks," said Christine Lagarde, the finance
   minister, in a speech on the value of work, before adding: "Enough
   thinking now! Let's roll up our sleeves." This week, Mr Sarkozy
   sneered at French philosophers during the visit of Libya's Muammar
   Qaddafi to Paris, accusing them of sipping coffee in Left Bank cafs
   while others got things done. As for France's famously rigid school
   curriculum, he has little fondness for it. Too much time is spent, he
   has declared, "on doctrine, theory and abstraction", and not enough on
   practical applications. How long will it be before he has a go at the
   national motto, a veritable wealth of abstraction: Liberty, Equality,
   Fraternity?


   Sweden's growing worries about Russia fuel a love-in with Norway

   WHEN the cold war ended, Sweden felt able to turn a furtive friendship
   with its fellow neutral Finland into a close economic, political and
   security one. Now it wants also to cosy up to its western neighbour
   and NATO member, Norway. Again, the motivation is Russia--but fear,
   not rapprochement, is the spur.

   The Swedes' immediate worry is a planned Russian-German gas pipeline
   on the Baltic seabed. That is littered with dumped chemical weapons
   and other munitions dating from the second world war, and home to
   sensitive submarine defences built during the cold war. A planned
   pumping station (see map) close to the Swedish shore has infuriated
   the country's defence establishment, which fears it will be used for
   Russian electronic espionage or other mischief-making. Such concerns
   give Sweden no legal basis for blocking the pipeline, but it is trying
   to delay it on environmental grounds.

   A combative radio interview by the Russian ambassador to Sweden,
   Alexander Kadakin, has failed to allay fears. He repeatedly described
   critics of the pipeline as "idiots", arguing: "why should we need
   [another] spy station when we already have the real-time capability to
   read the number plates of every car in Stockholm?"

   Last week Mats Engman, head of Sweden's influential MUST military
   intelligence and security service, publicly gave warning of the
   "Russian bear's...greater self-confidence and increased freedom of
   action." In the same week another top military thinker, Stefan
   Gustafsson, said: "the strategic map has changed. We must now analyse
   what resources are required at home if tension in the north were to
   grow." He noted that Russia's economic prosperity was financing a
   sharp rise in defence spending.

   Sweden and Norway are the military heavyweights of Scandinavia
   (Finland maintains a well-trained army with a stellar record, but has
   only a vestigial navy and air force). General Hken Syrn, commander
   of the Swedish armed forces, said recently that "Swedish and Norwegian
   security and defence interests are running closer than ever...and
   often shared." Sweden already shares its radar surveillance data
   closely with Finland and is discussing other military monitoring
   projects. It now hopes to match these by similar co-operation with
   Norway.

   However much diplomats may wince, there is no disguising that all this
   aimed at only one country: Russia. The hottest issue is energy. Norway
   hopes that a newly hawkish Sweden will be supportive in its
   long-running dispute with Russia over the two countries' northern sea
   border (see map). At stake are the "High North's" lucrative, and still
   largely unexploited, oil and gas reserves.

   A big sign of intensified co-operation would be if Norway chose to
   upgrade its air force with the Gripen JAS-39 fighter, made by Sweden's
   Saab. A Swedish television investigation this week claimed to have
   unearthed evidence of bribes of 1 billion kronor ($142m) paid to
   support the sale of 24 Gripen jets to the Czech Republic. A second
   programme next week will make similar allegations about sales in
   Norway. That may hold things up a bit.

   Unlearning the trusting habits of the past decade will be hard:
   Sweden's security establishment was run down in years when trade
   promotion and haggling in Brussels outweighed Russia-watching. Hawks
   are cheered by the foreign minister, Carl Bildt, a tough-minded and
   eloquent figure who as prime minister from 1991 to 1994 threw Sweden's
   weight behind the freedom of the Baltic states.

   All this is uncomfortable for Finland, forced by geography into a more
   cautious stance towards Russia. Finns have never forgotten that they
   learned of Sweden's decision to apply for membership of the European
   Union only when they read it in the newspapers. Some wonder if they
   might get the same nasty surprise about Sweden and NATO.


   Vladimir Putin asserts his country's place in the world


   LONG-LEGGED beauties in G-strings; fashion models in thigh-length red
   boots; even Ramzan Kadyrov, the Chechen warlord-turned-president,
   sporting a diamond-studded belt. All were on display in St Petersburg
   last week, along with a bevy of the world's top corporate bosses,
   political leaders and diplomats, at the annual economic forum, which
   has become a showcase of Russia's economic resurgence under Vladimir
   Putin.

   It was also, in a way, a microcosm of Russia. Those obsessed over who
   might succeed Mr Putin in 2008 noted that Sergei Ivanov, one of two
   front-runners, gave a presidential-style opening speech, but his
   rival, Dmitry Medvedev, was merely invited to sit on a panel. Mr
   Ivanov said that Russia would soon become the fifth-largest economy in
   the world. He also promised to fight red tape and graft.

   Both ills seemed evident at the forum. The event was cordoned off from
   the public; even those who were accredited were restricted in their
   movements. A chief executive of one big company was apparently asked
   for sponsorship money; when he refused he found his hotel reservation
   cancelled. Yet foreign investors' appetite for Russian assets seems to
   be heartier than ever. None of the bosses who met Mr Putin behind
   closed doors made a fuss about Russia's investment climate. Jeroen van
   der Veer, the boss of Royal Dutch Shell, which recently had to cede
   control over its giant Sakhalin 2 project to Gazprom, even stood up
   and thanked the president. Despite the rough treatment of some foreign
   companies and worsening relations with the West, business deals are
   still coming thick and fast.

   Arriving fresh from the G8 summit, Mr Putin asserted his place in the
   world and wrote off existing global organisations as archaic,
   undemocratic and unwieldy. "The world is changing before our very
   eyes," he said. "Countries that seemed hopelessly backward only
   yesterday are becoming the world's fastest-growing economies today."
   Russia no longer wanted simply to be part of the world's outdated
   architecture, but to change it, he told a panel that included Pascal
   Lamy, head of the World Trade Organisation, Peter Mandelson, the
   European trade commissioner, and Francis Fukuyama, a political
   scientist.

   To remind the world of Russia's foreign-policy ambitions, Mr Putin
   invited Vojislav Kostunica, Serbia's prime minister, to the forum. Mr
   Kostunica thanked Russia for being a staunch opponent of the
   independence of Kosovo. A few days earlier Mr Putin had brushed aside
   a proposal by Nicolas Sarkozy, the new French president, to give Serbs
   and Albanians another six months to negotiate. "Our position on Kosovo
   is based on international law and on the decisions adopted by the UN
   Security Council. This resolution states black on white that Kosovo is
   an integral part of Serbia," Mr Putin said. The Russians also ask, if
   Kosovo is granted independence, why not the two breakaway republics of
   Abkhazia and South Ossetia in Georgia?

   This week the Russians summoned an emergency meeting in Vienna to
   berate the West in their row over the status of the Conventional
   Forces in Europe treaty, a post cold-war deal. And Mr Putin has also
   managed, at least for now, to outmanoeuvre the Americans over missile
   defences in Europe. At the G8 meeting he offered joint use of a radar
   that Russia leases from Azerbaijan instead (see [4]article). Yet one
   former official in Washington says the same idea was floated five
   years ago. Discussion of it led nowhere then, and is even less likely
   to bear fruit now.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [3]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=76808258?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   4. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

   The brutal suppression of peaceful protests says much about the
   dangerously unfettered mood in the Kremlin


   SHORTLY after noon on April 14th, Russian riot police--known as the
   OMON--dragged a young man holding a bunch of flowers off the pavement
   near Pushkin Square in central Moscow. As he was thrown into a van, he
   braced his feet against the doors, to cheers from the crowd, but to
   the evident ire of the police. The doors were repeatedly slammed
   against his legs. An officer who climbed inside then appeared to beat
   him.

   The thousands of soldiers and police who mustered in the streets for
   the day gave Moscow an air of war. They came to quash a protest by
   Other Russia, a disparate coalition of President Vladimir Putin's
   critics. When a small group bypassed the cordons around the square and
   began shouting "freedom", the OMON rushed in. Copies of the
   constitution that the group had been carrying were trampled; Garry
   Kasparov, a former chess champion, was pulled from a restaurant. The
   OMON beat everybody nearby, including journalists, with truncheons and
   fists. And they arrested people indiscriminately, among them the man
   with the flowers, a group of transvestites and even a small boy.

   The excuse for all this was that the authorities had denied permission
   for Other Russia to rally in Pushkin Square. That refusal was itself
   one of the gnawing, pseudo-legal methods used to harass Russia's
   meagre opposition. The claim was made that a fake pro-Kremlin youth
   group had lodged an identical request only moments before Other Russia
   did. A handful of counter-protesters duly appeared on a roof, where
   they let off flares and insulted those below; the police did nothing.
   A few nationalists also gathered later in the day, with posters
   showing Jews clutching severed heads of Russian babies and making Nazi
   salutes.

   There had been grim pre-emptive warnings about the treatment that
   "illegal" protesters could expect, which were amply fulfilled. As a
   gritty snow fell, a few hundred tried to march to Turgenev Square,
   where a meeting had been sanctioned, chanting slogans such as "Down
   with Chekist power" and "We need another Russia". Mikhail Kasyanov,
   once Mr Putin's prime minister, now a critic, was jostled; his
   bodyguards were arrested. A small peaceful group was intercepted by
   the OMON. An old man tried to save an old woman from arrest; a dozen
   club-wielding men viciously attacked both. Vladimir Ryzhkov, an
   independent member of parliament whose party and seat are both
   disappearing under new political rules, advised everyone to go home.

   The thousand-odd who managed to reach Turgenev Square were surrounded
   by soldiers. When the time allowed for the meeting expired, they were
   driven off. Andrei Illarionov, a former economic adviser to Mr Putin,
   vainly read extracts from the Russian criminal code to an OMON
   officer. He and others were forced into a metro station. Later Mr
   Kasparov was ludicrously convicted and fined for shouting
   anti-government slogans. Supporters and journalists who gathered
   outside the police station were beaten again.

   The next day the action moved on to sunny St Petersburg, where Mr
   Putin himself first learned his trade in the KGB. Gazprom's plans to
   build a tower, and the exclusion of Yabloko, a liberal party, from a
   regional election, had contributed to an unusually large protest there
   in March. This time, the authorities were better prepared. As in
   Moscow, several would-be participants in Other Russia's meeting were
   detained in advance. Only around 1,000 gathered for a suffocatingly
   policed demonstration. "I believe Putin is the most dangerous criminal
   in Russia", read one man's placard, which bravely specified his name
   and address. "I love you, OMON", said another.

   The feeling was not reciprocated. As in Moscow, reinforcements were
   summoned from outside, perhaps because they would be less squeamish
   about pummelling the locals. "Are you going to beat us all?", an old
   woman asked an officer in battle gear, as protesters were funnelled
   away from tourists on Nevsky Prospekt. Shortly afterwards they did.
   When a group reached Vitebsky railway station, the OMON blocked their
   path, banged their riot shields and charged, skull-cracked and
   arrested at random. People waiting for buses and drunks sleeping on
   benches were caught in the frenzy. Eduard Limonov, the leader of
   another banned organisation, was arrested.

   The Kremlin says that its Other Russia critics are insignificant, and
   in a way it is right. Even were they not denied access to television
   (newspapers and radio stations who interview them also risk
   prosecution), the part-Jewish, part-Armenian Mr Kasparov and his
   allies would not command much support. Ordinary Russians can be
   stirred by tangible worries such as welfare reform, but for most of
   them freedom is about foreign holidays and a new television, not
   politics. Still, last weekend's excesses matter because of three
   things they reveal about the regime.

   First, the old Soviet neurosis about public meetings has been stoked
   to paranoia by Ukraine's "orange revolution" of 2004, which some in
   the Kremlin saw as a Western-sponsored coup. Since dissent must
   reflect foreign meddling, they see Other Russia as a Western stooge,
   part of a covert operation to destabilise the country. As with so many
   authoritarian rulers, they may be unsure how popular they are.

   Second, ahead of next year's presidential election the Kremlin is set
   on intimidating any opponents into quiescence, whatever the cost to
   Russia's reputation. Some may also want to send a message to foreign
   enemies, including exiles in London such as Boris Berezovsky.

   Yet Mr Putin is not Stalin. Nobody was killed at the protests, though
   hundreds were arrested and dozens hospitalised. But the third lesson
   is that the ruthless paranoiacs who run Russia are utterly unfettered
   in what they choose to do. Parliament is unlikely to investigate the
   huge cost of the gratuitous mobilisation. Suborned courts convicted
   innocent people of imaginary offences. The scant coverage on the main
   television channels made no mention of the man with the flowers or the
   brutalised old couple, and called those who demonstrated
   "ultra-radicals".


   The riddle of Russia's offer to help defend Europe from missiles


   DOES Vladimir Putin's idea of sharing an early-warning radar with
   America make any sense? The Russian president surprised G8 leaders on
   June 7th with a proposal to end the row over missile defences in
   Europe. Instead of building a new radar in the Czech Republic, America
   could share data from the Gabala radar that Russia leases from
   Azerbaijan. Rather than placing interceptors in Poland, they could be
   based farther south, in Turkey or at sea.

   Mr Putin said this would offer better protection from Iranian
   missiles, and that Russia would no longer have to aim its warheads at
   Europe, as he had threatened. President George Bush said it was
   "interesting" and experts should discuss it. But officials at
   America's Missile Defence Agency (MDA) note that the Gabala radar is
   designed to scan whole regions, whereas the proposed X-band radar in
   the Czech Republic would send out a narrow beam to identify small
   objects in space and help direct interceptors. Gabala could be
   upgraded, or used to supplement other early-warning data.

   America's interceptors on Aegis ships and mobile launchers could hit
   Iran's present missiles that reach the eastern Mediterranean (if they
   are not fooled by decoys). But the MDA says they would struggle, at
   great cost, to protect all of western Europe, let alone America, from
   future weapons of far greater range. Siting more powerful ground
   interceptors too close to Iran means they might not have enough time
   to hit fast-moving long-range missiles.

   In short, it seems unlikely that Mr Putin means to help build Europe's
   missile shield, rather than sabotage it. But his move was a clever
   pre-emptive strike that threw other G8 leaders off balance.


                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

   The election returns more predictable politicians--and brings relief
   in Europe 


   THE era of the terrible twins is over. That is the upshot of the
   election on October 21st in which the ruling Law and Justice party, a
   populist and nationalist outfit, was swept aside by a more moderate
   and pro-European party, Civic Platform. On the highest turnout since
   the collapse of communism in 1989, almost 54% of Poles voted,
   including for the first time large numbers from the diaspora in
   western Europe. Civic Platform, under its leader, Donald Tusk (above),
   polled just over 41%, winning 209 seats in the 460-member lower house
   of parliament, an increase of 76 seats on the 2005 elections (see
   chart).

   Law and Justice, led by the outgoing prime minister, Jaroslaw
   Kaczynski, polled more votes than last time and even increased its
   seats by 11, thanks to the demise of two small populist parties that
   had been its on-off allies in the unstable governing coalition of the
   past two years. Mr Kaczynski's brother, Lech, remains president until
   2010, and may try to use various delaying powers to hamper the new
   government. But his veto can be overruled by a three-fifths vote in a
   quorate session of the lower house. With only 166 seats, Law and
   Justice cannot block that.

   The result was a surprise. For most of the campaign, Civic Platform
   had been lagging badly. The government seemed to have made the
   election a referendum about corruption, one of Poland's biggest
   problems in the post-communist era. That seemed to polarise opinion
   successfully: only the austere Mr Kaczynski and his zealous
   corruption-busters stood for change. Opposing them meant defending the
   sleazy practices of the past. A strong dose of social conservatism on
   issues such as homosexuality and abortion, though it appalled
   liberal-minded, middle-class opinion in the cities, went down well
   with the many traditionalist rural voters.

   The alarm and contempt with which the Kaczynskis were viewed abroad
   seemed to make little impact. Prickly, monoglot, untravelled and
   old-fashioned (neither uses a computer and Jaroslaw does not even have
   his own bank account), they embodied and exploited the inferiority
   complex felt by many Poles.

   But Law and Justice overdid it. The high-handed approach of the
   publicity-loving justice minister, Zbigniew Ziobro, and the
   appointment of a close Kaczynski political ally, Antoni Macierewicz,
   as the head of a new military counter-intelligence service caused
   widespread queasiness in the country. Coupled with a highly partisan
   approach to top appointments in supposedly neutral institutions such
   as public broadcasting, the Kaczynski way of doing things risked
   comparison with Vladimir Putin's authoritarian regime in Russia.

   Such fears were overdone. Polish democracy may have been bruised by
   the Kaczynski era, but it was not in danger. Voters were unconvinced
   by the Kaczynskis' sometimes hysterical claims of the dangers posed by
   the corrupt overlap of ex-spooks and ex-communists. The use of
   sometimes primitive and xenophobic language prompted younger,
   better-educated Poles, previously apathetic about domestic politics,
   to vote in large numbers.

   The turning-point of the campaign was the prime minister's humiliation
   by Mr Tusk in a televised debate. Mr Tusk used humour, calmness and
   command of the facts to flatten Mr Kaczynski, allegedly flu-ridden,
   who came across as bombastic and waffly. Mr Tusk highlighted Law and
   Justice's weakness on economics, such as an unfulfilled pledge to
   build 3m new homes. He also pointed out that 2m Poles had gone to seek
   work abroad.

   Law and Justice then made matters worse by overplaying their strongest
   card: anti-corruption. Earlier in the campaign, police had arrested a
   Civic Platform parliamentary deputy, Beata Sawicka, in a sting
   operation (she admits doing wrong, but accuses the government of
   acting unfairly). Her party immediately sacked her. But two weeks
   later the powerful anti-corruption agency set up by Law and Justice
   held a sensational press conference to show a film, shot secretly, of
   Ms Sawicka apparently taking a bribe. That seemed to have nothing to
   do with the rule of law and everything to do with the election
   campaign. When Ms Sawicka held a press conference the next day, during
   which she broke down in tears, Mr Kaczynski commented that the
   opposition was trying to use a weeping woman to win the election. The
   episode symbolised Law and Justice's worst side: petty, vindictive and
   crass.

   On many issues, Civic Platform and Law and Justice overlap. Both have
   their roots in the anti-communist dissident movement; both emphasise
   the importance of the Catholic church. The fundamental difference is
   in their attitude to the painful economic changes of the 1990s. Law
   and Justice represents the losers from that era; Civic Platform stands
   for those who did well out of it. The biggest difference now will be
   in the style of government. Civic Platform prides itself on its
   international credentials and competence. How much of that translates
   into real reform at home remains to be seen.

   But foreign policy will certainly be different. Mr Tusk wants Polish
   troops pulled out of Iraq, sooner rather than later. Under the likely
   foreign minister, Oxford-educated Radek Sikorski, Poland may drive a
   slightly tougher bargain with America over missile defence. It will
   try to be a more co-operative member of the EU, avoiding the
   unnecessary fights, especially with Germany, that typified the
   Kaczynski era. "We've always held a hand out towards the Poles; now
   maybe it will be shaken," says a German official. Law and Justice will
   see such rapprochements as treachery. But the voters thought
   otherwise.


   Can fish fish themselves? Only in one of the European Union's maddest
   schemes



   IN RATIONAL systems of government, officials do not enjoy hearing that
   one of their policies is a shambles. Yet that is what happened when
   the Court of Auditors recently declared that the European Union's
   common fisheries policy (CFP), under which the European Commission
   sets maximum allowable catches, does not work. The auditors found that
   the actual level of catches is "unknown", thanks to gaps, errors and
   "mis-statements" (ie, fibs) in data sent to Brussels by national
   governments. Most rule-breakers are not caught; those caught are
   seldom punished; and the few who are punished face trifling fines.
   Schemes to reduce overcapacity in fishing fleets have been subverted.
   This has severe effects. A survey of the north-east Atlantic found 81%
   of fish stocks to be dangerously over-exploited.

   So why does the commission welcome this damning report? Because
   enforcing the CFP is largely a job for national governments. That
   turns the report into ammunition in a fight between Brussels and
   national capitals over who is to blame. One commission official
   insists that "on controls, it is the member states' fault." The list
   of cheats features Italy ("really bad"), Poland ("bad") and Spain ("a
   bad reputation round the world, for hidden compartments, illegal nets,
   the lot"). It also includes those who most criticise the CFP, such as
   the Dutch and British (Scotland was notorious for "black" landings,
   but has improved after nasty scandals). It is the same with
   over-fishing. Each autumn the commission proposes new limits. But the
   actual quotas are fixed every Christmas by national ministers in a
   sleepless, two-day marathon.

   The annual fisheries council (this year's begins on December 17th) is
   described by one official as "the sickest thing about the CFP". It
   even has its own, squalid traditions. Before the council, the
   commission proposes quotas that are larger than those recommended by
   its scientific advisers. National ministers then expand the quotas
   once again. In recent years, the final numbers have been 50% higher
   than the scientists advised. And then national fishing fleets break
   even these higher quotas.

   To most Eurocrats, the problem is selfish national interests, and the
   solution is tougher EU-wide controls. The CFP may be flawed, but if
   countries parcelled out the fish among themselves there would be none
   left, says one official. "We'd be discussing where to import fish
   from." To Eurosceptics, the blame rests with the EU: the CFP has
   forfeited the confidence of fishermen and the public (who are
   disgusted that quotas force fishermen to chuck dead fish back into the
   sea). Their answer is to keep Brussels out. British sceptics even
   murmur, eyes a-gleam, about Royal Navy warships patrolling to keep out
   foreign interlopers. (They are less good at explaining how British
   fishermen could stop the neighbours from over-fishing in non-British
   waters.)

   National governments like to spread the blame around too. Some even
   admit that their fishermen cheat. A 2004 report by the British prime
   minister's strategy unit called low levels of compliance in the
   industry "endemic". But the prize for unintentional comedy goes to
   France, whose officials once blamed the fish for a huge court fine
   slapped on French authorities for allowing illegal landings. (The ploy
   turned on a daring, if grammatically correct, use of reflexive verbs,
   so that a ministerial statement blamed undersized hake that se
   pchaient et se vendaient, suggesting the fish had fished and sold
   themselves.)

   Apart from the fish-blaming French, everybody has a point. The
   behaviour of national governments is simply the tragedy of the commons
   writ large. One official admits that discarding dead cod because they
   breach quotas is "obscene". The commission is studying the policy of
   Norway, where all fish must be landed, and over-quota fish are bought
   by the state for a modest sum. Clever nets could help in southerly
   waters, where dozens of species swim together. Officials also grumble
   about hypocrisy: fishermen quietly discard lots of fish so as to pack
   their holds only with the most valuable. Many fishermen cheat because
   they think the scientists are wrong, or because everyone else is, or
   because they cannot make a living otherwise.

   The force of the market

   In the end, though, arguments about how to control national fishing
   fleets miss the biggest point. A bolder reform would create a
   pan-European market in fishing rights, in which efficient skippers
   could buy, sell and rent tradable quotas (used in places like New
   Zealand, and also as domestic policy tools in parts of Europe). The
   resulting Euro-fleet would be smaller and easier to contain. It would
   also need fewer controls, as owners of big expensive boats have more
   incentive to preserve stocks.

   A Spanish official says that his country, with a competitive fishing
   industry, would support a single European market, at least for
   offshore fleets. The Dutch might be interested. Unfortunately, that is
   about it. Even the British are protectionist about fish, forcing
   foreigners who want to buy their quotas to maintain a lifetime
   "economic link" with Britain by hiring British crews, or landing fish
   in British ports.

   Politicians' heads tell them that fishing accounts for less than 1% of
   the EU's economy. Their hearts say it is a brave, dangerous business,
   bringing life to isolated ports where other jobs are hard to come by.
   Emotion helps to explain a (mad) founding principle of the CFP:
   "relative stability". This means that the share of fish stocks doled
   out to each country should be stable in relative terms, so that no
   national fleet loses ground to any other. This rigidity has blocked
   serious consolidation, as member countries cling to every last quota
   they can get.

   Europeans need to stop blaming each other for the failures of the
   current CFP. Instead, they should ponder the example of one of the
   EU's few uncontested triumphs, the single market, and apply its
   lessons to the seas. That would be rational. It might even be good for
   the fish.


   A cross-dresser's troubles with a resurgent Islam

                                                                    Tempo
                                                                    Tempo

                                                 Razor-sharp and petulant


   FOR more than 30 years a cross-dresser with a razor-sharp wit and a
   merciless tongue has won the affection of millions of Turks. And his
   success on television has been vaunted as evidence of the tolerance of
   Turkey's unique mix of Islam and secularism.

   But for the past year Huysuz Virjin (the Petulant Virgin) has been
   replaced by his less exotic self, Seyfi Dursunoglu, in a show aired on
   a private television channel. The 76-year-old entertainer claims to
   have been forced to trade in his trademark blonde wig, silk stockings
   and sexy gowns for more conventional male garb after Turkey's
   broadcasting watchdog, the RTUK, put pressure on television stations
   to ban cross-dressing.

   RTUK denies such censorship. But Mr Dursunoglu insists that he is the
   victim of a creeping conservatism that he believes has infected the
   country ever since the mildly Islamist Justice and Development (AK)
   party came to power five years ago. Although he was allowed to appear
   in drag for a special new-year programme, he says that "as a
   performer, I am no longer as free". Similar concerns about artistic
   freedom and secularism were aired last month by Fazil Say, a Turkish
   pianist, who accused the AK party of being unfriendly.

   Debate over whether Turkey is veering off the determinedly secular
   course laid down by Ataturk has intensified ever since AK was returned
   to power for a second five-year term in last July's parliamentary
   election, when it took 47% of the vote. Most Turks are plainly unfazed
   by such fears. Recent opinion polls suggest that support for AK has
   risen to a record 52%. "There is no evidence of a systematic plan by
   the government to make Turkey more Islamic," concedes Nilufer Narli,
   an Istanbul-based sociologist. Yet she adds that "expressions of
   Islamic piety are becoming increasingly overt, indeed a vehicle for
   networking and social mobility."

   Awkwardly for AK, an openly gay fashion designer has emerged as its
   most passionate defender. Cemil Ipekci has declared that AK is the
   best government to have ruled the country in the history of the
   republic and that, had he been born a woman, "I would have covered my
   head [ie, Islamic-style]." Pressed to explain, a demure Mr Ipekci says
   "I am a conservative homosexual."


   The 2008 budget gives companies a break but leaves spending too high

   IN ITALY, Romano Prodi once mused, it can be hard "to distinguish the
   real issue--about which nobody ever talks--from the fictitious one
   which is fought over ferociously." Rarely has that been truer than of
   the debate over the draft 2008 budget presented by Mr Prodi's
   centre-left government. Ironically the person responsible for the
   confusion is Mr Prodi himself.

   On September 29th he emerged from an 11-hour cabinet meeting to
   announce that the low-paid would get reduced property taxes and either
   an income-tax break or a cash handout. But he scarcely mentioned the
   most significant measure: a cut in the corporate-tax rate from 33% to
   27.5%. The budget also trims a regional business tax. Together, these
   may boost the economy without unleashing inflation, which might flow
   from income-tax cuts of the sort being urged by the opposition.

   For public consumption, it is being said that this apparent giveaway
   to industry will not cost a cent, because the budget also widens the
   corporate-tax base by scrapping many tax breaks. But officials
   privately admit that this is nonsense. The corporate-tax rate is to
   fall by a sixth, which will soak up much of the extra EUR18 billion
   ($25 billion) that Mr Prodi's finance minister, Tommaso
   Padoa-Schioppa, has raked in by squeezing tax evaders.

   The reason nobody admits this is to avoid upsetting Italy's trade
   unions and their allies in government, who could bring down Mr Prodi's
   shaky coalition. The left has already forced him to water down pension
   reforms. The unions have secured a modest EUR700m package of welfare
   reforms that they are now putting to a vote of their members. A
   rejection would be disastrous. So this is not a good moment to be
   highlighting what many Italians might see as a bosses' bonanza.

   Mr Padoa-Schioppa claims that his budget will reduce the deficit from
   2.4% of GDP this year to just 2.2% in 2008, less than in Britain and
   France. He also expects the public debt to shrink from 105% to 103.5%
   of GDP. This is not enough for the rating agencies, which have
   grumbled that he ought to do more to repair Italy's public finances.
   But Mr Padoa-Schioppa has reversed a trend of rising deficits and debt
   only by inflicting real pain--not only by improving tax collection but
   also by raising tax rates. The government had to give a sign to
   payroll employees, who cannot dodge because their tax is deducted at
   source, that there are benefits from the clampdown on the less honest
   of their self-employed peers.

   A more pertinent criticism of the 2008 budget is that it again shrinks
   from spending cuts. The public sector takes over half of Italy's GDP,
   and it spends it badly. Waste, corruption, overstaffing and
   underperformance make for a huge burden on the economy. It is an issue
   about which Mr Padoa-Schioppa cares passionately. Last month, his
   department sent a "green book" to ministers detailing where they could
   make cuts. But that would pit them against trade unions and other
   vested interests. It is perhaps too much to ask of politicians with a
   single-vote majority in the upper house of parliament.


   The significance of France's military base in the Gulf 

                                                              Alphafrance

                                Alphafrance

              Down the Champs Elyses, and out into the world


   FRANCE'S announcement this week that it is to open a military base in
   the United Arab Emirates could mark a strategic shift in its defence
   policy. It will be France's first permanent base in the Gulf, in a
   country where it has no colonial ties. By drawing its 400 troops from
   an existing base in Djibouti, it hints at a withdrawal from France's
   traditional African backyard. Moreover, coming in the middle of
   France's first full defence review for 14 years, it suggests a radical
   rethinking of the country's defence and security policy.

   The future of French overseas military bases is one element under
   review. France now has around 5,000 soldiers in three permanent bases
   in Africa: Senegal, Gabon and Djibouti. It also has 2,600 soldiers on
   a peacekeeping mission in Cte d'Ivoire, and 1,100 on the ground in
   Chad soon to be joined by another 2,000 as part of a French-led
   European Union force. Ties of history keep French soldiers in Africa.
   But President Nicolas Sarkozy has told the defence review team to
   "construct the security and defence of tomorrow according to needs,
   not habits".

   Mr Sarkozy has pre-empted his own review's conclusions, not due till
   March, by announcing the Emirates base, just across the Gulf from
   Iran. It shows that the French are ready to move outside their
   traditional sphere and to match their military presence to strategic
   interests rather than colonial links. Although the base will be small,
   it also suggests that Mr Sarkozy, who has taken a tougher line on Iran
   than his predecessor, may be ready to take a bigger part in
   stabilising the region.

   There could be more surprises to come. Jean-Claude Mallet, head of the
   defence review, says it aims to define a "new doctrine" of security
   and defence. Mr Sarkozy has told him nothing should be taboo. A white
   paper is due in the spring and legislation is planned by the summer.

   One idea is that France should set up a National Defence and Security
   Council, loosely modelled on the American version, to co-ordinate
   domestic and foreign security. Another suggestion will be a commitment
   to maintain defence spending at about 2% of GDP, roughly the same as
   in Britain. Despite defence-spending increases, French military types
   complain about the lack of transport aircraft and the shoddy state of
   the helicopter fleet.

   Perhaps the trickiest issue is France's role in NATO. It is a member,
   and participates in many NATO operations: one-third of the 10,000
   French soldiers on missions abroad are under a NATO banner; a French
   general commands the NATO force in Kosovo. But since de Gaulle pulled
   France out of the alliance's integrated military command in 1966, it
   has had no say in NATO defence planning. Mr Sarkozy, who likes to make
   a splash and please the Americans in equal measure, has hinted
   strongly that France could soon rejoin fully.

   Not, however, without one key condition: more progress on European
   defence. Mr Sarkozy, in short, wants the British to back European
   defence properly, and the Americans to stop distrusting this on the
   ground that it may be a rival to NATO.

   The trouble is that Gordon Brown, Britain's prime minister, is in no
   hurry to pursue anything that has the slightest whiff of deeper
   European integration, especially with the EU's reform treaty still
   before the British parliament for ratification. Relations between Mr
   Sarkozy and Mr Brown are businesslike rather than warm. They may not
   be helped by the ostentatious love-in between Mr Sarkozy and Tony
   Blair, who spoke (in French) to rapturous applause at an event
   organised by the president's centre-right party last weekend. The
   French have found it hard to drum up support for the EU force in Chad:
   neither the British, who are stretched in Iraq and Afghanistan, nor
   the Germans are sending any troops.

   French officials are frustrated by the lack of British response to
   their hints about NATO. But it is hard to see room for compromise.
   Something less than a full-blown EU defence headquarters would not
   satisfy the French; anything too grand or NATO-duplicating would not
   get past the British. As one French official puts it, however,
   "Sarkozy will not accept no response. If he doesn't get agreement,
   he'll go somewhere else." There is even talk of dealing directly with
   America, doubtless pleased with France's planned Emirates base. But it
   is hard to see that working in America's fraught election year.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [3]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=27672660?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   4. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

   France looks forward to more controversial reforms and more
   protests--all at a time when the European economy is slowing

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters


   THE economic mood may be souring fast, but Nicolas Sarkozy still
   managed to bring some festive cheer to his electorate over the holiday
   period. His liaison with Carla Bruni, a Franco-Italian singer and
   one-time supermodel, whom he took on an official-trip-cum-holiday to
   Egypt, was splashed on every magazine cover and seemed to fill the
   airwaves for days on end. But even the latest chapter in the
   presidential family soap opera may not be enough to distract the
   voters from harsher times ahead: a fresh batch of reforms against a
   backdrop of rising prices and weakening economic growth.

   "Despite the obstacles, despite the difficulties, I will do what I
   said I would," vowed Mr Sarkozy in his televised new year's message
   this week. The diary of reforms planned for the coming months is
   certainly full. January 15th is the (revised) deadline for trade
   unions and employers to reach agreement on how to loosen France's
   rigid labour laws. Under discussion, among other matters, are the
   country's tough redundancy rules and highly protected work contracts,
   which have discouraged job creation. The idea is to secure more
   flexibility for employers, in return for greater efforts to improve
   training and salaries for employees. But the talks have been
   predictably difficult, not least because Mr Sarkozy has let it be
   known that, if no deal is reached by the new deadline, the government
   will legislate anyway.

   Franois Fillon, his prime minister, has just added two extra items to
   the labour-market negotiations. One is to make the financing of the
   unions more transparent. The other concerns working time, which is
   limited by the notorious 35-hour week introduced by a Socialist
   government in 2000-02. The government has tried to lessen this
   constraint by making any time worked over 35 hours free of tax and
   social-insurance charges. So far, two-fifths of firms employing more
   than ten people have made use of this rule. But overtime rates must
   still be paid. Mr Fillon now says that working time itself should be
   discussed, in return for better pay, and that it should be negotiated
   company by company. The parties have been given until the end of March
   to reach an agreement.

   The coming months will also bring a broader review of pension rules.
   The pension reform that triggered a crippling nine-day strike last
   November touched only the 1.6m people in "special regimes": train
   drivers, railwaymen, gas and electricity workers and others entitled
   to a full pension after 37.5 years'-worth of contributions, against 40
   for everybody else. Now that the special-regime workers have accepted
   a longer contribution period, the overall rules are up for review. At
   the very least, the period is likely to go up to 41 years, but this
   change will be fiercely contested. A big demonstration is already
   planned for January 22nd. On top of all these plans, there are
   proposals to merge the job-placement and benefit agencies, to make
   certain company-tax breaks conditional on pay rises for the
   lowest-paid, to introduce a back-to-work benefit to make work pay more
   than welfare, and to break the stranglehold of the big five unions on
   worker representation.

   Will any of these measures help to lift France's growth rate from its
   recent meagre average of 2% a year? Judged by the standards of the
   Chirac years, when successive governments backed away from reforms in
   the face of street demonstrations and strikes, they constitute a
   veritable blast of reform. Before Mr Sarkozy came along, nobody dared
   to touch the special regimes, for instance, nor to attack the
   cherished 35-hour week.

   Yet a closer look at the Sarkozy method reveals some shortcomings. The
   first is a tendency to give ground to secure a headline-grabbing deal.
   Consider the reform of the special regimes, which Mr Sarkozy has
   presented as a done deal. In reality, despite acceptance of the
   "progressive lengthening" of the contribution period to 40 years, the
   only final agreement struck so far is at the RATP, which runs the
   Paris metro and bus system. In return for 40 years of contributions,
   it has agreed among other things to increase pay grades on which
   pension benefits are calculated. Yet without knowing the details
   (which the RATP will not divulge, on the ground that this is an
   internal matter) it is impossible to judge the net benefit.

   The second weakness is an instinct to micro-manage. Take the 35-hour
   week. Rather than just getting rid of the legal limit altogether, Mr
   Sarkozy has put in place a web of new rules and incentives to
   encourage everybody to ignore it. One is the tax break on overtime.
   Another is the request to bosses and unions to negotiate their own
   working-time deals. A third is a plan to allow employees who already
   work for more than 35 hours a week to cash in the days off that they
   get in return. Some companies give 22 such days, on top of normal paid
   holiday; vast stocks of these have built up over the years. Although
   employers like the idea of reducing these holiday promises, they will
   be less pleased to be invited to foot the bill. The upshot may turn
   out to be the death of the 35-hour week, but it is a mightily
   complicated way to go about it.

   The third worry over Mr Sarkozy is his attitude towards public
   finances. He has already postponed from 2010 until 2012 the
   government's promise to balance its budget. In 2008 the deficit is
   expected to be 2.3% of GDP, the widest gap in the euro zone (though
   less than in Britain). In the third quarter of 2007, public debt still
   amounted to 65.9% of GDP. Although Mr Sarkozy has stepped back from
   the gratuitous handouts that some observers had feared, there is a
   continuous struggle within the government between those arguing for
   tighter fiscal control and those content to spend come what may.

   The biggest problem, though, is that Mr Sarkozy is hoping for the
   first results of his reforms to come through at just the moment when
   the global credit crunch is hitting home, even in the euro area (see
   [4]article). Mr Sarkozy had hoped that his autumn "fiscal shock",
   worth nearly EUR11 billion ($15 billion) in 2008, would boost
   confidence and accelerate growth. But France has not felt it. Thanks
   in part to rising oil and food prices, household confidence has fallen
   sharply since September, and the French are feeling the squeeze on
   their pockets. In polls, they repeatedly cite "purchasing power" as
   their biggest worry. In December Mr Sarkozy's approval rating fell to
   49%, according to TNS-Sofres, a pollster, from a high of 65% in July.

   All of which is palpably frustrating for the French president, who
   sometimes talks of economic growth as if he thinks it can be bullied
   into doing better. He has repeatedly said that he wants GDP growth of
   3%, declaring that "I will not wait for growth, I will go and find
   it." Although the government forecasts 2-2.5% growth for 2008, most
   economists reckon it will be 1.7-1.8%. The restless Mr Sarkozy may
   find he has embarked on a long search.


   A former Russian prime minister reflects on the Kremlin today

   VIKTOR CHERNOMYRDIN, Russia's ambassador to Ukraine, is no
   Western-style democrat. Nor does this (now wealthy) founder of Gazprom
   and ex-prime minister pretend to be. Yet behind his tough Soviet-style
   exterior is a shrewd and idiosyncratic politician, who provides a
   refreshing burst of colour in a grey political landscape.

   Once termed syntactically challenged, he rarely completes sentences.
   When he does they turn into folklore, the best example of which ("we
   hoped for the best, but it turned out like always") is now a
   catchphrase in Russia. His description of the situation in Ukraine is
   equally apt: "It has never been like this and now it is exactly the
   same again." Many Ukrainians would agree.

   Mr Chernomyrdin deplores the condescending tone of the Russian media
   towards Ukraine. "These people have no idea of what is going on in
   Ukraine. We must show more respect--it will do us good. Boris Yeltsin
   understood this and never allowed himself to take this kind of tone."
   This is not the only thing that sets Yeltsin's former prime minister
   apart from today's Kremlin. "I don't quite understand the role of the
   government in Russia. What is it doing? Yeltsin and I had a clear
   division: he was in charge of politics and I was managing the economy.
   He never interfered."

   As prime minister, he chose people for their abilities not their
   views. "After work they could be whoever they wanted, but during the
   day they had to be professionals." Few liberal reforms in Russia
   happened without his support. In 1995 he negotiated on the phone with
   Shamil Basayev, a Chechen terrorist who took over 1,200 hostages in a
   hospital in the southern town of Budyonnovsk. "It was the most
   important thing for the country to understand that the new government
   cared about its people," he says. Mr Chernomyrdin's intervention saved
   hundreds of lives and led to peace talks with the rebels. It was a far
   cry from how the government (mis)handled the 2002 theatre siege in
   Moscow and the 2004 hostage crisis in Beslan.

   The formidable Mr Chernomyrdin took Yeltsin's death hard. "It is like
   with parents: while they are alive you feel you have your back
   covered, and when they go you feel you are on your own."


                                                                    Gamma

                                   Gamma

   Russia's wars in Chechnya, which the Kremlin says are over, have
   shaped the country that Russians and the world are now living with


   LIKE a high-end bar mitzvah, only with more weapons, the inauguration
   of Ramzan Kadyrov was held in a giant white marquee, in the grounds of
   one of his palaces, near the Chechen city of Gudermes. The
   guests--Russian officers who were once his enemies, rival warlords
   squirming in dress uniforms, muftis in lambskin hats--brought
   sycophantic portraits, cars and other gifts fit for a Caucasian
   potentate. As his pet lions gnawed on their bones outside, Chechnya's
   new president made a speech, as short and nervous as a schoolboy's, in
   which he vowed to continue the reconstruction of his wretched
   semi-autonomous Russian republic.

   Everyone applauded--and everyone knew the ceremony was irrelevant. Mr
   Kadyrov has in effect ruled Chechnya since his father Akhmad, also its
   president, was blown up in 2004. His authority is based on violence,
   and the backing of Vladimir Putin, Russia's president. Mr Putin
   levered Ramzan into his father's post soon after he reached 30, the
   minimum age for the job.

   Superficially, Mr Kadyrov deserves it. Apartment blocks are adorned
   with cultish posters of Ramzan: with his father; riding a horse; being
   awarded his Hero of Russia medal by Mr Putin. Behind the posters, many
   buildings are still pockmarked or gaping with shell holes. But many
   others have been rebuilt on Mr Kadyrov's watch. "He helps everyone,"
   says a woman in Grozny, just returned from exile to a refurbished
   building near Minutka Square, once the site of savage fighting.
   Another Grozny resident says gratefully that Mr Kadyrov's men repaired
   all the battle-smashed windows in his neighbourhood.

   So the Kremlin has some evidence for its assertion that the two wars
   fought to quell Chechen separatism--the first rashly launched by Boris
   Yeltsin in 1994, the second beginning in 1999--are now over. Chechnya
   is still part of Russia, and any other would-be secessionists have
   seen the bloody price the Chechens have paid: perhaps 100,000
   civilians dead, and many more displaced.

   But what kind of Russia is it part of? War with Russia has deformed
   Chechnya. But perhaps more than anything else in Russia's post-Soviet
   history, the forgotten Chechen wars have shaped the angry and
   authoritarian country Russia has become.

   Mr Putin made Mr Kadyrov president; but Chechnya helped to make Mr
   Putin himself president of Russia. Were it not for the air of
   emergency engendered by the second Chechen war, which began when Mr
   Putin was prime minister, the lightening rise of this obscure ex-KGB
   officer would have met more resistance. The war, and the string of
   mysterious apartment bombings that preceded it, brought the FSB (the
   renamed security service that Mr Putin briefly led) back to the centre
   of Russian politics. And it has been the cause, or the pretext, for
   many of the hard-line policies of the Putin presidency.

   Russia's gathering suspicion towards the West can be traced in part to
   the autumn of 2004, and Beslan. It was in that town that terrorists
   demanding Russia withdraw from Chechnya, and a botched rescue attempt,
   killed over 330 people, most of them children. Mr Putin used the
   catastrophe as an excuse to change parliamentary rules and scrap
   elections for regional governors (who are now all, like Mr Kadyrov,
   appointed by the Kremlin). And he lashed out at foreign powers which,
   he said, were scheming to weaken Russia.

   Whether or not he really believed that knee-jerk explanation, the
   aftermath of Beslan embittered Mr Putin's relations with the United
   States and Europe (along with the "orange revolution" in Ukraine soon
   afterwards, which the Kremlin saw as a Western-backed coup). He had
   sought to portray Chechnya as another front in the "war on terror",
   and was outraged when Western diplomats questioned his post-Beslan
   political reforms and Russian policy in the north Caucasus. He became
   ever more concerned to counteract American power; Chechnya also helped
   to determine one of his methods, namely Russia's renewed courtship of
   its Soviet-era Arab allies. Dabbling in the Middle East--fraternising
   with Hamas, prevaricating on Iran--offers a chance to assuage Muslim
   anger over Chechnya, at the same time as frustrating the Americans.

   And the Chechen tragedy helps to explain why Mr Putin's neurotic
   bluster plays so well among ordinary Russians. Their country may not
   be a proper democracy, but the Kremlin is still nervously responsive
   to shifts in the national mood. Partly because of Chechnya, that mood
   has become increasingly xenophobic.

   Perhaps out of an old solidarity, says one Chechen who has lived in St
   Petersburg and Moscow, Russians were sympathetic to Chechnya's plight
   during the first war. Few are today, especially since the conflict
   leapt up to Moscow itself, via multiple terrorist bombings and the
   theatre siege of 2002, in which 130 hostages died. Alexei Levinson, a
   sociologist, charitably sees today's antagonism towards Chechens as a
   displaced form of guilt. Inside, he speculates, Russians know the
   Chechens have long been wronged, from tsarist colonisation, through
   Stalin's deportation of the entire Chechen nation in 1944, to the
   atrocities that untrammelled media coverage of the first war conveyed
   to the nation. Whatever its cause, the fear and suspicion are fierce,
   and have fed a widening loathing of foreigners.

   No limits

   But even as it elevated Russia's spooks, and puffed up their paranoia,
   Chechnya demonstrated and contributed to the chronic weakening of
   another once-mighty institution, the army. Before the first war
   started, Yeltsin's defence minister boasted that Grozny would be taken
   in two hours. Two years later, with the army exposed as woefully
   trained and equipped, it ended in humiliating defeat.

   When the second one began--now with the Kadyrovs switching sides to
   fight alongside the Russians--the brutal tactics were more effective.
   The atrocities were less well publicised, especially after the
   forcible takeover of NTV, Russia's last independent national
   television station. Chechnya was thus a factor in the first big
   skirmish of another of Mr Putin's campaigns, against media freedom.
   Today, real information about life (and death) in Chechnya comes from
   human-rights groups and a few brave journalists, of whom there are
   fewer still after last year's (unsolved) murder of Anna Politkovskaya.

   Chechnya, as Russian soldiers put it, became a place "without limits".
   Extra pay for combat (real or invented), and the kickbacks required to
   claim it, were only the most mundane form of graft. There was also
   kidnapping, the sale of stolen weapons to the enemy and enough oil to
   kill for. The benighted Chechens were not the only victims of the
   amorality. Some Russian officers were alleged to have sold their own
   conscripts to the rebels. Wild abuse of power became normal. Sergei,
   from Siberia, was shot in the back by a drunken officer in Chechnya in
   2003--because, he says, of a row over a woman. Sergei, who now walks
   with a cane, says serving in Chechnya was like "sticking my head in a
   refuse pit".

   This depravity and callousness--each year, more Russian soldiers die
   outside combat than Americans die in Iraq--has helped to generate
   wholesale dodging of Russia's biannual draft. (Conscripts are no
   longer supposed to go to Chechnya, but many still do, says Valentina
   Melnikova, of the Union of Soldiers' Mothers.) Families who can afford
   to save their sons from service do so by paying corrupt recruitment
   officers and doctors. One result, as a top air-force officer recently
   complained, is that those who are drafted are often already sick,
   malnourished or addicted. Another is the exacerbation of social
   tensions in what is a perilously unequal country.

   As with all wars, the starkest toll of Chechnya's are the dead, who as
   well as the slaughtered Chechens officially include around 10,000
   federal troops, and unofficially many more. Then there are the tens of
   thousands of injured, such as Dima, who lives with his parents in a
   grotty apartment on the outskirts of Moscow. In December 1999, Dima
   was shot in the chest in the village of Alkhan-Yurt. He heard the air
   rushing out of his lungs; then he was wounded again. He lay bleeding,
   eating snow, and preparing to die, but lived after a doctor bet his
   colleagues two bottles of vodka that he could be saved. Two pieces of
   shrapnel stayed in his back. "I lost my health forever when I was 20,"
   says Dima, who was incapacitated for two years; terrible years, says
   his mother. Alkhan-Yurt, meanwhile, became infamous for the butchery
   and rape committed there by the Russians soon afterwards.

   Still, Dima, now at college, is relatively lucky. Many of the 1m-plus
   Chechnya veterans came back alcoholic, unemployable and anti-social,
   suffering what soon became known as "the Chechen syndrome". This
   widespread experience of army mistreatment and no-limits warfare has
   contributed to Russia's extraordinary level of violent crime: the
   murder rate is 20 times western Europe's. But the cruelty is also
   reproducing itself in a less well-known and more organised way.

   As well as the army, thousands of policemen across Russia have served
   in Chechnya. Many return with disciplinary and psychological problems,
   says Tanya Lokshina of Demos, a human-rights group. They also bring
   back extreme tactics that they proceed to apply at home, such as the
   sorts of cordons and mass detentions deployed against peaceful
   protesters in Moscow and St Petersburg in April. Torture, concluded a
   recent report by Amnesty International, is endemic among Russian
   police. It is often used to extract confessions, but not always: a
   survey by Russian researchers found that most victims of police
   violence thought it had been perpetrated for fun.

   Tail wags dog

   Is the war truly over, as the Kremlin says it is? Despite the loss of
   most of their leaders--and somewhat incredibly, considering Chechnya's
   tiny size--an unknown number of insurgents are still fighting for what
   they call the Islamic republic of Ichkeria. They are still killing the
   local forces, under Mr Kadyrov, to whom most of the fighting has been
   outsourced. But Russians are still dying too.

   So are Chechen civilians. Grigory Shvedov, of [4]Caucasian Knot, an
   independent news service, says the number of "disappearances" has
   fallen dramatically in the past few years; but they still happen with
   scandalous frequency. The Council of Europe has repeatedly rebuked Mr
   Kadyrov and Russia over persistent torture and illegal detention. The
   decade of trauma, says a Chechen psychologist, has resulted in a spike
   in suicides, especially of people in their 30s whose lives have been
   derailed.

   In Grozny's Kadyrov Square a young man complains that there is no work
   outside the government and security services. It is an open secret
   that Mr Kadyrov's reconstruction push is funded through extorted
   contributions from those lucky enough to have jobs. The vast sums sent
   by Moscow for the purpose have largely vanished into thin air.

   And instability and violence have skipped across Chechnya's borders to
   the neighbouring north Caucasus republics, themselves cursed by
   poverty, ethnic tensions and government that is bad even by Russian
   standards. The grimmest is Ingushetia, where Husen Mutaliyev was once
   a used-car salesman and father of a baby girl. Since a spell learning
   Arabic in Egypt, says his brother Hasan, the police had harassed
   Husen. Early on March 15th, Hasan says, around 20 masked men seized
   Husen from his house. "We are Putin's soldiers," was all they offered
   by way of identification. They beat him, then shot him when he tried
   to escape. His body was returned the next day. Around 15,000 Chechen
   refugees are still living squalidly in Ingushetia, in train wagons,
   warehouses and goods containers. Some are still afraid; some have
   nothing left in Chechnya to go back to.

   One fear is that the local resentments such treatment provokes could
   eventually join up into a pan-Caucasian insurgency, intensified by the
   radical Islam that the wars have helped to foster. The biggest risk,
   however, may be Mr Kadyrov himself. At 30, he is ruler of what Dmitri
   Trenin of the Carnegie Moscow Centre describes as a "medieval
   khanate", within a country that is still more an empire than a modern
   state. He has appointed a regional government comprised largely of
   ex-rebels like himself. If he lives--and for all their theatrical
   obeisance, some of Chechnya's other strongmen loathe him, as do many
   Russian officers--what more might he want?

   Mr Putin, his partner and patron, is due to leave office in 2008. Mr
   Kadyrov is already testing the limits of his authority; though Moscow
   denies it, his men sometimes scuffle with federal troops. One day, it
   might even suit the Kremlin to encourage this truculence. For now, it
   needs a stable Chechnya to reassure Russians ahead of next year's
   presidential election; in the future, it might again need an unstable
   one.

   Like his own political career, the country Mr Putin will bequeath has
   been formed by its long, coarsening Chechen misadventure. Mr Putin's
   Russia has become a sort of tamer version of Mr Kadyrov's Chechnya. In
   both, improvements in living standards have won the approval of
   populations who have come to expect tragically little from their
   leaders--a mended window, say, or a pension that is paid on time. But
   government in both rests on power rather than the law, and has
   oppressed too many while improving the lot of most. The big question
   for Russia, Chechnya and the world is whether the symbiotic reigns of
   the Chechen warlord and the Russian spook are necessary codas to
   tumultuous times, or the incubators of yet more instability and pain.


   An election is called, emergency rule is ended, but the damage lingers


   TO A visitor who has not seen Georgia since the "rose revolution" of
   2003, the changes are stunning. Grand buildings ruined by war and
   neglect have been restored. Where there was night-time gloom there is
   now light. Roads have been repaired and chronic energy shortages are a
   thing of the past. Money is being poured into infrastructure and
   schools.

   In Batumi, which in 2003 was outside central-government control, new
   hotels sprout everywhere. In the past two years Armenian tourists have
   returned. One reason is that, after the rose revolution, President
   Mikheil Saakashvili sacked all the traffic police, who had previously
   done little except extract cash from anybody on the roads. "It used to
   cost $100 in bribes to drive here from Armenia," says Levan
   Varshalomidze, head of Batumi's local government. This year the
   Georgian economy should grow by 10%, despite a Russian economic
   blockade.

   This all makes recent events in Georgia more depressing. On November
   7th the government cleared opposition protesters from Tbilisi's main
   street after five days of demonstrations. The move went wrong as the
   opposition called in reinforcements, provoking riot police into
   liberal use of batons and tear-gas. A state of emergency was declared
   and opposition television stations were taken off the air. The next
   day Mr Saakashvili declared that he would hold a snap presidential
   election on January 5th. "You wanted early elections," he said. "Have
   them even earlier!" This week the government announced the lifting of
   the state of emergency, too.

   At the start of the protests, Salome Zourabichvili, a former French
   ambassador who became Georgia's foreign minister before being sacked
   by Mr Saakashvili, said that the government liked to show
   reconstruction to foreigners to mislead them. "We are living in a
   Potemkin country," she scoffed. This is unfair, but life is hard for
   most Georgians. Former industrial towns such as Zestaponi and Kutaisi
   remain devastated by the collapse of the Soviet Union. The countryside
   is dotted with skeletal remnants of factories. One of Georgia's
   biggest exports is scrap metal.

   Expectations of Mr Saakashvili were so high that they could only be
   dashed. Alex Rondeli, an analyst, suggests that part of the problem is
   that no politician who wants to stay in office can be truly honest
   about how long rebuilding Georgia is going to take. "It will take
   time," he says, "more than one generation." Mr Saakashvili and his
   friends have been tough and acted quickly, but in the process they
   have made enemies. Many claim that Mr Saakashvili has let power go to
   his head.

   If he is no longer half as popular at home (and abroad) as he once
   was, it still seems likely that he will win the presidential election.
   Badri Patarkatsishvili, a tycoon, has declared that he will run. The
   opposition is furious because this may divide the anti-Saakashvili
   vote. According to David Usupashvili, leader of the Republican Party,
   the aim of the ten-party opposition coalition, who have chosen Levan
   Gachechiladze, a former businessman, as their candidate, is to scrap
   the present presidential system. "We are not searching for a better
   Saakashvili," he says.

   The opposition may suffer from claims that some of its leaders were in
   contact with Russian spies during the protests. Russia still backs two
   breakaway Georgian enclaves, Abkhazia and South Ossetia. As Giga
   Bokeria, an associate of Mr Saakashvili's, notes, "Moscow's declared
   goal here is regime change." That is why European and American attacks
   on the government's crackdown on the Tbilisi protests have caused
   irritation. Outsiders report that Mr Saakashvili is in high spirits,
   untroubled by the criticisms, which he brushes aside as ill-informed.
   Mr Rondeli notes of Russia that "we are in a cage with a cruel dog who
   is biting us. We are asking Europe to open the cage and let us out but
   all they say is: `be nice to the dog.'"


   Doubts still hang over plans to form a united centre-left party

   FORTY years ago, two young men entered the elite Scuola Normale
   Superiore in Pisa: Fabio Mussi, son of a Tuscan steelworker, and
   Massimo D'Alema, son of a Communist lawmaker. The two formed a
   legendary comradeship, campaigning hard for the Italian Communist
   Party (PCI). When the PCI was wound up in 1991, both joined its
   successor, now known as the Left Democrats (DS). But even as Mr
   D'Alema, now foreign minister, edged closer to the ideas of Bill
   Clinton and Tony Blair, his friend stayed loyal to his blue-collar
   origins and became leader of the farthest left DS faction.

   On April 20th their friendship snapped. Appalled by the DS's plans to
   fuse with Democracy and Freedom (Margherita), the next-biggest party
   in Romano Prodi's centre-left government, Mr Mussi said he would quit.
   At a congress in Florence, he moved delegates to tears as he bid
   farewell. Mr D'Alema looked on impassively. The congress should be the
   DS's last. In the autumn, primaries are planned to choose a leader for
   the newly united Democratic Party.

   If the new party emerges, it will be Italy's biggest, and it may give
   Mr Prodi the political base he now lacks. But questions remain
   (besides the obvious risk that the birth may be aborted if the
   government collapses first). One is whether Mr Prodi, who promises to
   step down at the end of his present term, will be elected leader. He
   came fourth in a recent poll of voters; first choice was Walter
   Veltroni, mayor of Rome.

   Another question is where the new party will fit internationally. DS
   leaders, who dropped the hammer and sickle from their flag less than
   ten years ago, favour affiliating with the cross-Europe Party of
   European Socialists. But Francesco Rutelli, who leads Democracy and
   Freedom, said at his party's congress last weekend that this was
   "impossible".

   And that points to perhaps the biggest doubt: whether putting all of
   Italy's centre-leftists into one party can stop them warring. Mr Prodi
   wants the Democratic Party to be like its American namesake, but it
   will not be. Its leftmost tip may match the Democrats; but on the
   right it takes in members of Mr Rutelli's party who look more
   Republican. One, a member of the Catholic Opus Dei movement and
   fervently pro-life, proudly admits to wearing the cilice, an
   instrument of corporal mortification. You can bet Mr Clinton never did
   that.


                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

   The poor world is getting the rich world's diseases

   IN 1619 an English captain sailing past Cape Cod reported that the
   Massachusetts shore was "utterly void". The Indians "died in heapes as
   they lay in their houses" confirmed an English merchant. By killing
   much of the population of the Wampanoag confederacy, the epidemic that
   raged from 1616-19 made possible the first permanent European
   settlement in north America, that of the Pilgrim Fathers in 1620. The
   Indians had caught the illness, thought to have been viral hepatitis,
   from prior contact with Europeans, probably captured French sailors.

   Europeans have been exporting their maladies throughout history. They
   seem to be doing it again, but in a new way. In the past, the problem
   was infection. Now, illnesses associated with Western living standards
   are the fastest growing killers in poor and middle-income countries.
   Chronic disease has become the poor world's greatest health problem.

   For many in the West, diseases are a bit like birds: everyone gets
   them but poor countries have more exotic species. Rich-country
   maladies are things like heart disease, cancer and diabetes: "chronic"
   conditions often resulting from diet or physical inactivity.
   Developing countries suffer more lurid and acute infections: malaria,
   tuberculosis, measles, cholera. HIV/AIDS is unusual in that it affects
   rich and poor alike. But otherwise, poor countries are presumed to
   have their own health problems. The sixth of the United Nations'
   millennium development goals (a sort of ten commandments of poverty
   reduction adopted in 2000) is concerned with infections only--the
   ailments of poverty. The progress report issued last month half way
   through the millennium programme's 15-year course tracks HIV/AIDS,
   malaria and tuberculosis. Combating chronic disease is not part of
   what the UN calls its "universal framework for development".

   Yet the distinction between illnesses of affluence and illnesses of
   poverty is misleading as a description of the world and doubtful as a
   guide to policy. Heart disease--supposedly an illness of affluence--is
   by far and away the biggest cause of global mortality. It was
   responsible for 17.5m deaths worldwide in 2005. Next comes cancer,
   another non-infectious sickness, which caused more deaths than
   HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria put together (see chart 1). Chronic
   conditions such as heart disease took the lives of 35m people in 2005,
   according to the World Health Organisation (WHO)--twice as many as all
   infectious diseases.

   If you look at lower-middle income countries, such as China, or
   upper-middle income ones, like Argentina, you find that what kills
   people there is the same as in the West (see chart 2). Four-fifths of
   all deaths in China are from chronic sicknesses. That is also true of
   countries as varied as Egypt, Jamaica and Sri Lanka.

   The main difference between these countries and rich ones is that
   chronic illnesses are more deadly there. Five times as many people die
   of heart disease in Brazil as in Britain, though Brazil is not five
   times as populous. Rich countries have become better at dealing with
   chronic conditions: death rates from heart disease among men over 30
   have fallen by more than half in the past generation, from 600-800 per
   100,000 in 1970 to 200-300 per 100,000 now.

   This has not happened in middle-income countries. In 1980 the death
   rate for Brazilian men was below the rich-country average (300
   compared with 500-600). Its death rate has not changed--and is now
   higher than all but a few rich countries. Russia is worse off. In 1980
   its death rate was 750 per 100,000. Now it is 900, about four times as
   high as most rich countries.

   It may not seem surprising that upper-middle income places such as
   Russia suffer from "Western" ailments. But chronic diseases are mass
   killers in the poorest nations, too. Indeed, the only unusual thing
   about these countries is that they suffer from infections as well as
   chronic disease: a double burden. Chronic diseases were responsible
   for over 12m deaths in countries with annual incomes below $750 a head
   in 2005--almost as many as were caused by communicable ones. Africa is
   the only continent where infectious illnesses cause more deaths than
   the non-communicable kinds.

   Chronic diseases are becoming deadlier and more burdensome to the
   poor. By 2015, says the World Bank, these ailments will be the leading
   cause of death in low-income countries. They already account for
   almost half of all illnesses there and impose substantial economic
   costs.

   People in poor countries get chronic diseases younger than in the
   West. There, chronic conditions bear heavily upon the old. Not so in
   poor and middle-income nations. Death rates for those between 30 and
   69 years of age in India, Russia and Brazil are two or three times
   higher than in Canada and Britain. Almost half of deaths from chronic
   problems in developing countries occur in people below 70.

   As a result, the poor suffer from chronic illnesses longer and are
   more likely to die of them. The death rate from chronic disease in
   poor countries is obviously higher than in rich countries; more
   surprisingly, it is often higher than the death rate from infections.
   India, Pakistan, Nigeria and Tanzania all have roughly the same death
   rate for cardiovascular disease: 400 per 100,000. That is at least
   twice as high as the Western norm and, at least in India and Pakistan,
   more than four times the average death rate from infections (in
   Nigeria and Tanzania, HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis are still
   deadlier).

   Chronic disease bears down especially hard on working adults, imposing
   a heavy economic burden. Families in poor countries are much more
   likely than in the West to spend their savings looking after a
   chronically ill relative, or to pull children out of school to act as
   nursemaids.

   In short, developing countries suffer more from "rich world maladies"
   than the rich world itself. Overall in 2005, only a fifth of deaths
   attributable to "illnesses of affluence" (chronic conditions) actually
   took place in the most affluent nations. Three-quarters happened in
   poor or lower-middle-income ones.

   Death eaters

   Why are poor countries so vulnerable to the diseases of the rich? And
   why does public attention and aid money ignore them and focus on
   infections?

   The simplest explanation for chronic diseases' increasing importance
   is that people in poor countries now live long enough to suffer them.
   Thanks to better sanitation, more food and improved public health,
   average life expectancy in low and middle-income countries has risen
   from 50 in 1965 to 65 in 2005. The increase in the poorest countries
   was proportionately greater: from 47 to 63. There are now more old
   people around to be vulnerable to chronic maladies.

   At the same time, because of increased health spending and safer
   water, infectious diseases have declined relative to chronic ones.
   International financing for malaria control has increased more than
   tenfold in the past decade. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation,
   with its $33 billion endowment, concentrates largely on infections. As
   a result, the incidence of tuberculosis, measured by the number of new
   cases per 100,000, has fallen slightly. In Africa fatal malaria cases
   among children under five (the main victims) fell between 1960 and
   1995, though the decline has since levelled off. The WHO reckons that
   deaths from infections will decline by 3% over the next ten years. So
   more people in poor places will survive infections in their dangerous
   childhoods to reach an age when they are susceptible to heart attacks
   and cancer.

   Since chronic disease among the poor is not the preserve of old age,
   another part of the explanation for its increasing importance must lie
   in the harmful things middle-aged folk do. Of these, smoking and
   unhealthy eating are most important.

   Around 300m Chinese men smoke. In China, Egypt, Indonesia and Russia,
   people spend 5-6% of their household income on cigarettes--far more
   than the share in rich countries. Smoking and its associated ailments
   are still rising in poor countries, even while they fall in rich ones.

   Middle-income countries are also experiencing extraordinary levels of
   obesity. According to one study, half of all households in Brazil
   contain at least one obese person; the share is three-quarters in
   Russia. According to another, Mexico is the second fattest nation
   among the 30 (mostly rich) countries of the Organisation for Economic
   Co-operation and Development, after America. It has the highest rate
   of diabetes among large countries, with 6.5m diabetics in a population
   of 100m. Not coincidentally, Mexicans are among the biggest swiggers
   of fizzy drinks in the world. Coke and tacos, anyone?

   Obesity affects rich countries, of course: it is a symptom of
   affluence and urbanisation. But it is occurring much earlier than
   anyone had expected in middle-income places. Obesity among children
   there used to be unheard of. Last year China's vice-minister for
   health, Wang Longde, said more than a fifth of Chinese children
   between seven and 17 who live in cities are overweight--a proportion
   that presumably reflects not only the wealth of China's urban elite
   but the amount of money they lavish on their "little emperors" (the
   single children they are limited to by China's one-child policy).

   Yet despite all the evidence that chronic disease is the world's
   biggest health problem, most poor countries focus on infectious
   disease and their health policies are usually based on the idea that
   infections should be controlled before chronic conditions. These
   choices no doubt partly reflect bureaucratic inertia at health
   ministries and investment in fighting infections by medical charities
   and drugs firms.

   Not just statistics

   It is true that there are better reasons why poor countries might want
   to concentrate on infections despite the growth of chronic disease.
   Infectious illnesses are usually simpler to deal with than chronic
   ones, requiring inoculation campaigns rather than long-term care,
   changes of lifestyle and the uphill work of public education.
   Moreover, if you inoculate a child against malaria, you considerably
   reduce his or her chances of dying from that disease, since most
   deaths from malaria occur among children under ten. If you lower
   someone's risk of getting a heart condition at 50, you might well find
   they get it at 60. The disease can only be managed.

   Still, it can be managed better: the contrast between death rates from
   heart attacks (falling in the West, rising elsewhere) shows that.
   Stalin said a single death is a tragedy, a million deaths, a
   statistic. But millions of avoidable deaths are millions of tragedies.
   Chronic disease is already the biggest problem for poor and
   middle-income countries. To concentrate so much on infections is to
   add to the health burden of the next generation in what are already
   the world's poorest, unhealthiest places.


   Have the terrorist attacks of September 11th 2001 put a lasting dent
   in civil liberties? The first of a series begins this week with a look
   at torture

   IN EVERY war, information is a weapon. In a "war against terrorism",
   where the adversary wears no uniform and hides among the civilian
   population, information can matter even more. But does that mean that
   torture can sometimes be justified to extract information?

   The answer in international law is categorical: no. As laid down in
   treaties such as the Geneva Conventions, the UN Convention against
   Torture and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,
   the ban on torture or any cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment is
   absolute, even in times of war. Along with genocide, torture is the
   only crime that every state must punish, no matter who commits it or
   where. Defenders of this blanket prohibition offer arguments that
   range from the moral (torture degrades and corrupts the society that
   allows it) to the practical (people will say anything under torture so
   the information they provide is unreliable anyway).

   The September 11th attacks have not driven any rich democracy to
   reverse itself and make torture legal. But they have encouraged the
   bending of definitions and the turning of blind eyes. There is a
   greater readiness among governments that would never practise torture
   themselves to use information which less squeamish states have
   obtained--through torture.

   Start with definitions. Most civilised people squirm at the thought of
   putting suspected terrorists on the rack or pulling off toenails. What
   if that prisoner knew the whereabouts of a ticking bomb--maybe a
   biological, chemical or even nuclear one? Wouldn't a little sleep
   deprivation, sexual humiliation or even water-dunking be justified to
   save hundreds and perhaps thousands of lives? Whatever the law says, a
   lot of people seem to think so.

   In a BBC survey of 27,000 people in 25 countries last October, more
   than one out of three people in nine of those countries, including
   America, considered a degree of torture acceptable if it saved lives.
   Opposition was highest in most European and English-speaking countries
   (see chart). Another poll in 2005 by the Pew Research Centre found
   that nearly half of all Americans thought the torture of suspected
   terrorists was sometimes justified.

   Two Republican presidential hopefuls, Rudy Giuliani and Mitt Romney,
   support the "enhanced" interrogation of suspects in the event of an
   imminent attack. Dick Cheney, America's vice-president, recently
   suggested that "dunking" a terrorist in water to save lives was a
   "no-brainer". The ensuing uproar led him to backtrack, claiming that
   he was not, of course, referring to "water-boarding", or simulated
   drowning, a technique regarded as tantamount to torture and banned in
   the American army's own interrogation manual.

   I'll tickle you into submission

   One objection to allowing moderate physical pressure is the difficulty
   of knowing where to draw the line. If stress positions and sleep
   deprivation do not work, do you progress to branding with red-hot
   irons and beating to a pulp? And can you rely on interrogators to heed
   such distinctions? It is the danger of a slippery slope that makes
   opponents of torture insist on a total ban.

   Israel is the only country in modern times to have openly allowed
   "moderate physical pressure" as a "last resort". Since interrogators
   used such methods anyway, it was argued, passing an explicit law would
   at least make it possible to set out some limits. But in 1999, citing
   the slippery-slope argument, Israel's Supreme Court ruled that torture
   could never be justified, even in the case of a ticking bomb. It went
   on to outlaw techniques such as sleep deprivation, exposure to
   extremes of hot and cold, prolonged stress positions, hooding and
   violent shaking.

   In the 1970s Britain used similar techniques against suspected
   terrorists in Northern Ireland. These were banned in 1978 following a
   case brought by the Republic of Ireland to the European Court of Human
   Rights. Although not torture, such methods did amount to inhumane
   treatment, the court ruled. In 2002 the International Criminal Court
   for ex-Yugoslavia in The Hague decided that prolonged solitary
   confinement constituted torture. Such rulings did not prevent America
   from resorting to such harsh techniques when interrogating suspects in
   Afghanistan, Iraq and Guantnamo Bay, however. Former detainees in
   those places have spoken of severe beatings, water-boarding,
   excruciating stress positions, mock executions, sleep deprivation and
   much else besides.

   Administration lawyers argued that since al-Qaeda and its Taliban
   allies were not a state party to the Geneva Conventions they were not
   covered by its ban on torture and other maltreatment. True, America
   had ratified (in 1988) the Convention against Torture, but that
   applied only to acts carried out on American soil, they said. And
   though America's own 1994 federal statute against torture did cover
   acts by Americans abroad, this applied only to full-blown torture, not
   lesser abuses.

   In the notorious "torture memos" drawn up by the Department of Justice
   and the Pentagon in 2002 and 2003, the same lawyers sought to restrict
   the normal definition of torture--"severe pain or suffering"--to
   extreme acts equivalent to "serious physical injury, organ failure, or
   even death". Furthermore, as a wartime commander in chief whose main
   duty was to protect the American people, the president had the power
   to override both domestic and international law, they argued. After
   being leaked in 2004 most of these memos were "withdrawn", though not
   the one on the president's wartime powers.

   Mr Bush and his colleagues have always said that America neither
   authorises nor condones torture. "We don't do torture," the president
   famously said. But Mr Bush has been vaguer about the grey area between
   torture and more moderate pressure. Soon after suspected terrorists
   were first sent to Guantnamo in January 2002 he said that America's
   armed forces would treat the detainees "humanely" in a manner
   "consistent with the Geneva Conventions"--but only "to the extent
   appropriate and consistent with military necessity".

   Not until the Supreme Court's ruling in Hamdan in 2006 did the
   administration accept that all detainees, wherever held, were
   protected by Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions, which bans
   all forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment as well as torture.
   The 2005 Detainee Treatment Act, incorporating an amendment by Senator
   John McCain, already prohibited such treatment by American soldiers
   anywhere in the world. But it did not apply to the CIA.

   Co-operating with torturers

   Yet it is the CIA that has been responsible for the "extraordinary
   rendition" of suspects to clandestine prisons in third countries for
   "enhanced" interrogation (whether by that country's agents or the CIA
   itself) amounting at times, many suspect, to torture. The programme's
   existence was not officially confirmed until Mr Bush announced last
   year the transfer to Guantnamo of the last 14 "high-value" detainees
   then being held in so-called "black sites" around the world. Of some
   100 suspected terrorists believed to have been "rendered" over the
   past six years, 39 remain unaccounted for, Human Rights Watch, a New
   York-based lobby, says.

   In July this year Mr Bush set out new broad guidelines for
   interrogations under a resumed CIA programme. He says the newly
   authorised techniques now comply fully with the Geneva Conventions'
   ban on "outrages upon personal dignity, in particular humiliating and
   degrading treatment" as well as torture. Even if true (which is hard
   to know because the details have not been disclosed), the programme
   itself with its enforced disappearances and black sites, which even
   the International Red Cross is not allowed to visit, violates basic
   tenets of international law.

   Even if a country bans torture, how should it treat information that
   others have extracted this way? In 2004 Britain's Court of Appeal
   ruled that information acquired through torture was admissible as
   evidence in court. David Blunkett, then Britain's home secretary,
   welcomed the ruling. Although the government "unreservedly" condemned
   torture, he said, it would be "irresponsible not to take appropriate
   account of any information which could help protect national security
   and public safety." But the ruling was later overturned by the House
   of Lords.

   A separate question is whether governments should use information
   extracted under torture by others for counter-terrorist purposes, even
   if it is not admissible as evidence. Most probably agree with Mr
   Blunkett that it would be irresponsible not to. But a case can be made
   that this is, in effect, condoning the use of torture by allies.

   Britain has also run into trouble when trying to deport suspected
   foreign terrorists against whom it has not got enough evidence to
   secure a conviction in court. Under international law, a country must
   make sure that the person it wishes to expel is not in danger of being
   tortured or subjected to other abuse in the receiving country. In 2005
   the UN's special rapporteur on torture criticised Britain for relying
   on "diplomatic assurances" that deportees would not be tortured.
   Charles Clarke, who had succeeded Mr Blunkett as home secretary,
   retorted that the rights of the victims of the London Tube bombings
   that year mattered more than those of the perpetrators. The UN should
   "look at human rights in the round", he said, "rather than simply
   focusing all the time on the terrorist." Fine--except that no British
   court had convicted these suspects as terrorists.

   To date, 144 countries have ratified the Convention against Torture.
   (The hold-outs include such usual suspects as Sudan, North Korea,
   Myanmar and Zimbabwe, but also India.) And yet, the UN's special
   rapporteur told the Security Council in June, torture remains
   widespread. Amnesty International noted cases of state-sponsored
   torture or other inhumane treatment in 102 of the 153 countries
   included in its 2007 report. The worst offenders were China, Egypt
   (both of which are parties to the convention), Myanmar and North
   Korea, along with several African countries. America's transgressions
   are trivial by comparison. The worry, argues Kenneth Roth, director of
   Human Rights Watch, is that when America breaks the rules it
   encourages others to do the same.

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

       The scandal of Abu Ghraib: a recruiting poster for terrorists

   Why does torture endure? Part of the reason, argues Michael Ignatieff,
   a Canadian writer, may be that it is at times motivated not so much by
   a desire to extract vital information but by something baser, such as
   an urge to inflict pain, exact revenge, or even just for fun. That
   seems to have been part of the motivation of the Americans who abused
   prisoners in Abu Ghraib, for example. But torture may also endure
   because it sometimes works.

   They'll say anything

   Many critics of torture claim that it is ineffective as well as
   repugnant. Since people will say anything just to stop the pain, the
   information gleaned may not be reliable. On the other hand, if people
   do say anything under torture, you might expect some of what they say
   to be true and therefore--if those being tortured really are
   terrorists--useful to the authorities. Torture certainly helped induce
   Guy Fawkes to betray his co-conspirators after they had tried to blow
   up King James I and the British Parliament on November 5th 1605.

   Asked recently about the CIA's use of enhanced interrogation in secret
   prisons, George Tenet, the CIA's director until 2004, replied that the
   agency's widely condemned rendition programme had saved lives,
   disrupted plots and provided "invaluable" information in the war
   against terrorism. Indeed, while denying the use of full-blown
   torture, he said that the programme on its own was "worth more than
   the FBI, the CIA and the National Security Agency put together have
   been able to tell us."

   Mr Ignatieff, for his own part, sees no trumping argument on behalf of
   terrorists that makes their claims to human rights and dignity prevail
   over the security interests--and right to life--of the majority. Yet
   he continues to advocate a total ban. "We cannot torture, in other
   words, because of who we are," he says. He knows that many will
   disagree.


   More and more countries have doubts about the death penalty

   HOURS after being sentenced to death by a sharia court in Somalia last
   May, Omar Hussein was publicly executed. He was hooded, tied to a
   stake and stabbed to death by the 16-year-old son of the man he had
   admitted stabbing to death three months earlier.

   In Kuwait, a Sri Lankan was executed last year by hanging, or so the
   authorities thought. After the body was taken to the morgue, medical
   staff saw he was still moving. He was finally pronounced dead only
   five hours after the execution had begun. In Iran, a man and a woman
   were stoned to death for extra-marital sex.

   The horrors of cruelly administered, or botched, execution are not
   confined to developing countries or to lands that follow the letter of
   hudud, traditional Islamic punishment. In Florida last December, Angel
   Diaz was executed by lethal injection. The three-drug cocktail that is
   used by 37 American states is supposed first to induce
   unconsciousness, then to paralyse muscles and block breathing, and
   finally to stop the heart. But after the first injection, Diaz
   continued to move, squint and grimace as he tried to mouth words. A
   second dose was administered; only after 34 minutes was he declared
   dead. A post mortem showed the first needle had plunged through the
   intended vein, injecting the deadly chemicals into soft tissue
   instead. Two days later Governor Jeb Bush suspended executions in the
   state and set up a commission with a mandate to consider the humanity
   and constitutionality of lethal injections.

   According to Amnesty International's latest report, "at least"
   (precise figures are hard to get) 1,591 executions were carried out
   worldwide last year, well down on the previous year, but nearly 40%
   higher than in 2003. Yet Piers Bannister, the lobby group's
   death-penalty specialist, believes that the world is gradually inching
   its way towards abolition.

   That may sound wildly optimistic. But he says the important point is
   not the number of executions, which fluctuates from year to year, but
   the number of countries that carry out executions. This total has
   fallen steadily from 40 a decade ago to just 25 last year. Since 1985,
   55 countries have ended the death penalty or, having already limited
   it to "extraordinary" crimes (such as those committed in wartime),
   have now banned it outright.

   During the same period, only four states have reintroduced the death
   penalty. Two of them, Nepal and the Philippines, have since abolished
   it again; in the other two, the Gambia and Papua New Guinea, there
   have been no executions.

   Big swathes of the world have become execution-free: 89 countries have
   abolished the death penalty for all crimes, another ten for all but
   exceptional crimes, and a further 30 are abolitionist in practice,
   having executed nobody for at least a decade. Louise Arbour, the UN
   High Commissioner for Human Rights, has called for the complete
   abolition of the death penalty. In Europe, where abolition of capital
   punishment is a condition of membership of both the European Union and
   the 46-nation Council of Europe (of which Russia is a member), Belarus
   is the only country that still uses it. In Africa, only four countries
   carried out the death penalty last year. And in the Americas, the
   United States is the only country to have executed anybody since 2003.
   Only Asia and the Middle East seem largely untouched by the global
   movement away from the death penalty.

   Even China, the world's top executioner--which reports carrying out
   1,010 death sentences last year, though the real number may be nearer
   8,000--might be having second thoughts. Since January 1st all death
   sentences have had first to be approved by the Supreme People's
   Court--a practice that had been suspended after the launch of China's
   "strike hard" crackdown on crime in 2003, when publicly admitted
   executions soared to more than 7,000. In their annual report to
   parliament last month, representatives of China's chief legal bodies,
   including the Supreme People's Court, the public prosecutor's office
   and the ministries for justice and the police, urged a reduction in
   use of the death penalty (as well as torture).

   At a meeting of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva last month, La
   Yifan, a Chinese delegate, went quite a lot further; he said he was
   "confident" that the application of the death penalty in China "will
   be finally abolished"--though this may prove to be window-dressing in
   the run-up to next year's Beijing Olympics.

   The method used for execution in China is already changing, with a
   gradual switch from firing squads to American-style injections. It was
   reported last year that China had deployed a fleet of "death
   vans"--vehicles equipped with the necessary equipment for lethal
   jabs--in order to make it easier for rural communities to dispose of
   criminals.

   Six countries--China, Iran, Pakistan, Iraq, Sudan and the United
   States--accounted for more than nine in ten of last year's known
   executions. Kuwait, which put just ten people to death last year, had
   the highest number of executions per head, followed by Iran. Iraq,
   where the death penalty was suspended after the American invasion in
   2003, showed the biggest proportionate leap in executions, up from
   just three in 2005. Desertion from the Iraqi army has been made
   punishable by death.

   Methods of execution vary widely. Since 2000, the condemned have been
   put to death by stoning (in Afghanistan and Iran), stabbing (in
   Somalia), beheading (in Saudi Arabia and Iraq), electrocution (in the
   American states of Virgina, South Carolina and Alabama), shooting (in
   China, Belarus, Somalia, Taiwan, and other countries), hanging (in
   Egypt, Iran, Japan, Jordan, Pakistan, Singapore and elsewhere), and
   lethal injection (in China, Guatemala, the Philippines, Thailand and
   America).

   Introduced in America in 1977 as a supposedly more humane alternative
   to other forms of capital punishment, lethal injection is now the
   preferred method in all but one of the 38 states that retain the death
   penalty. But its reliability and painlessness are increasingly being
   questioned. Eleven states have already suspended some or all of their
   executions while awaiting the outcome of more than 40 legal
   challenges, based on the constitution's ban on "cruel and unusual
   punishment". Given the number of contradictory rulings by the courts,
   the matter is bound to end up, sooner or later, in the Supreme Court.

   This week, as two more convicts were executed by lethal injection (in
   Ohio and Texas), a new report added fresh scientific evidence. An
   analysis of 41 executions by lethal injection in California and North
   Carolina since 1984 found that the three-drug cocktail can cause a
   slow and painful death from suffocation while leaving victims
   conscious, but unable to move or cry out. Furthermore, the last drug,
   designed to provoke massive cardiac arrest, does not always succeed in
   doing so, according to the Public Library of Science online journal,
   PLoS Medicine. 

   America is one of very few democracies (along with Japan, India, South
   Korea and Taiwan) still to have the death penalty. Abolitionists have
   been galvanised by findings that many innocent people--more than 120
   since 1973--were wrongly sentenced to death. Now questions over
   America's most popular method of execution are prompting some
   campaigners to ask, hopefully, whether this could be the beginning of
   the end of capital punishment. Some states, including New Jersey,
   Maryland, Montana and Nebraska, are already moving towards an outright
   ban. And if injections are outlawed, then a majority of Americans
   might prefer life imprisonment without parole rather than returning to
   the electric chair, firing squad or gas chamber. Indeed, there are
   opinion polls which suggest that half the electorate already feels
   that way.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   An impressive bounty for the new skipper of a troubled ship

   WHEN sailors turn on their captain, it often ends badly--in shipwreck
   or retribution. But the World Bank, whose staff rose up against their
   leader in the spring, has just hauled in some treasure.

   On December 14th, after nine months' haggling, it convinced 45
   countries--including unlikely benefactors such as China, Egypt and
   Latvia--to give it over $25 billion, to be bestowed on the world's
   poorest states during the next three years.

   That is 42% more than the bank drummed up the last time round, and
   comes on top of $6.3 billion to compensate it for the loan repayments
   it lost as a result of debt relief. At a time when the IMF, a sister
   institution, faces big job cuts, this infusion of funds was a triumph
   for multilateralism. It was also a victory for the bank's new
   president, Robert Zoellick (pictured above), who replaced Paul
   Wolfowitz in July. A confident technocrat, he has reassured Europeans
   who were unnerved by his neoconservative predecessor's political
   baggage and lack of direction. Germany, one of the leaders of the
   spring putsch, stumped up $2.2 billion, and Britain, which pledged
   $4.3 billion, became the bank's biggest single donor.

   Mr Zoellick had raised the ante in this funding round by contributing
   $3.5 billion to the pot from other bits of the bank's empire. Rather
   than relending that money to middle-income countries or investing it
   in the private sector, Mr Zoellick chose to spend it in countries
   whose annual income per head is less than $1,065.

   In some ways, the bank's prospects may have benefited from tumult at
   the top. Europe's policymakers worked hard to oust Mr Wolfowitz. Why
   bother, if they were not ready to back his replacement?

   Still, Mr Zoellick's pitch in the beg-a-thon differed little from his
   predecessor's: the bank mobilises common funds for common aims, as Mr
   Wolfowitz put it. In a world of more than 280 donors (from the Desert
   Locust Control Organisation for Eastern Africa to the International
   Potato Centre), international aid is a fragmented business, putting it
   mildly. The bank says it can hold it all together.

   For example, on December 13th the bank approved a project to lay and
   repair rural roads and bridges in Afghanistan, which often succumb to
   snow, rain or landslides. Afghan reconstruction is supported by a
   multilateral fund, administered by the bank. All neat and tidy. But
   funds for road-building also arrive from the Europeans, the Japanese,
   the Americans, the British and even the UN's Counternarcotics Trust
   Fund. The road project's prospectus bemoans the "large numbers of
   donors and NGOs chasing projects and government attention".

   Too true. Tanzania got 542 donor visits in 2005; Vietnam had 791, more
   than two a day. By pouring money through a shared conduit like the
   bank, donors make fewer demands on weak local bureaucracies. The OECD,
   a rich-country club, says the bank is less of a nuisance than some
   donors: less prone to split aid into tiny projects, or to bypass a
   government's own budgetary systems.

   The bank calls itself a common "platform" from which others can
   operate. But such modesty conflicts, at times, with a need to find and
   advertise success stories. One such tale is a project in India's
   Karnataka state, which has helped farmers to make dams, collect rain
   and protect soil from monsoons. The bank says these efforts have
   raised crop yields by 24% and household incomes by two-thirds; they
   have also yielded some nice images of sapling mango trees and
   flowering jasmine.

   But the bank is still struggling to gauge the real impact of its work.
   It can say it built or repaired over 22,000 classrooms in the 12
   months to June, but it can't tell how much children are learning. So
   the bank wants to improve its own indicators: the Afghan project, for
   example, will judge its success by whether the price of commodities in
   village markets falls to within 15% of town prices. But the bank's
   recent woes have slowed the drive for closer self-scrutiny--a need
   that may well grow as it is called on to oversee projects that are
   supposed to conserve carbon (see [3]article).

   The bank is happy when cash flows smoothly from taxpayers, through its
   coffers, to the governments and projects it supports. But sometimes
   development is better served by restraint than by largesse. Free money
   can stifle a country's own tax-raising efforts--and private
   enterprise. It can also underwrite misgovernment and malfeasance. The
   bank's staff and shareholders balked when Mr Wolfowitz shifted course
   to focus more on corruption. After that experience, will their new
   helmsman ever dare to rock the boat?


   Can rule by the people be reconciled with the sovereignty of Allah?


   "TURKEY sets a fantastic example for nations around the world to see
   where it's possible to have a democracy coexist with a great religion
   like Islam." Those were George Bush's words of welcome, this week, to
   Turkey's President Abdullah Gul.

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

              In the name of God, let's throw the rascals out

   In decades past, a Turkish leader might have been received at the
   White House with cordial remarks about his country's growing
   prosperity or its contribution to NATO. But it would have been
   strange, perhaps, not to mention religion when hosting a head of state
   who had just set a precedent that was watched with fascination by
   politically active Muslims in many parts of the world. When he became
   president, Mr Gul proved that it was possible for a pious Muslim with
   a headscarved wife to be made head of state, by a perfectly democratic
   procedure, in a country where the army is an ever-vigilant guardian
   against theocracy. For those who insist (whether their arguments are
   theological, or empirical, or both) that Islam and liberal democracy
   are quite compatible, Mr Gul's election (and Mr Bush's exuberant
   reaction to it) was a badly needed nugget of hope in a year when that
   cause has seen quite a lot of setbacks.

   Among American officialdom, confidence in the prospects for democracy
   in Muslim (and in particular, Arab) lands has fluctuated under the
   Bush administration. It reached a high point, arguably, in mid-2005,
   when Condoleezza Rice, the secretary of state, declared in Cairo that
   the bad old days of favouring stability over democracy were over--and
   then it plunged again the following January when the Islamist Hamas
   movement swept to victory in Palestine.

   For political scientists, especially those who have studied the
   phenomenon of "Muslim Democracy" in the belief that the Turkish case
   could be a precedent for others, the recent turmoil in Pakistan and
   the assassination of Benazir Bhutto have been a great tragedy in a
   pivotal country that had the potential to develop a new concordat
   between Islam and open politics.

   Vali Nasr, a professor at America's Tufts University, terms "Muslim
   Democracy" a newish and potentially decisive force in the non-Arab
   parts of the Muslim world. In his view, the recent experience of
   Turkey, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Malaysia and Indonesia all points to a
   single truth: wherever they are given the chance, Muslim Democratic
   parties (which are responsive to public opinion and thrive in an open
   political contest) can prevail over harder-line and more violent
   varieties of political Islam.

   Among the parties Mr Nasr identifies as Muslim Democratic are the
   faction of the Pakistani Muslim League that held sway until the
   military takeover in 1999; the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (in power
   till last year's coup); Malaysia's ruling UMNO party; and a cluster of
   mildly Islamic parties that share power in Indonesia (see [4]article).
   Exhibit A for Muslim Democracy is Turkey's Justice and Development
   (AK) party, which won its democratic spurs after several decades of
   sparring between generals and pious politicians. As with several other
   Muslim Democratic parties, the AK's rise reflected economic growth and
   the advent of a devout but non-fanatical middle class which resents
   the older elites of bureaucrats and generals.

   But what if any is the intellectual ground for Muslim Democracy? Roman
   Catholic thinking had to tread a long path before it reconciled its
   belief in human sinfulness with popular sovereignty; Christian
   Democracy, an important force in post-1945 Europe, was the result.

   Abdal-Hakim Murad, a British Muslim scholar, argues that Muslim
   Democrats have an easier road to travel because Islam's view of human
   nature is a less pessimistic one. But several factors have helped to
   make the Muslim debate about democracy difficult and inconclusive.
   Most of the schools of Muslim thought that have emerged over the past
   century have been intensely interested in political theory, and also
   intensely concerned with precedents set at the dawn of the Muslim era.
   But the precedents are not clear: some caliphs took power by
   inheritance, others through consensus, others by force.

   Khaled Abou El Fadl, an Egyptian-born law professor, has pointed to a
   passage from the Koran which seems to endow human beings with a
   special mandate to look after their own affairs.

     When your Lord said to the angels: "I have to place a vice-regent
     on earth," they said: "Will you place one there who will create
     disorder and shed blood, while we intone Your litanies and sanctify
     Your name?" And God said: "I know what you do not know."

   That verse, Mr Fadl has argued, seems to imply that far from sitting
   back and letting God do everything, human beings must organise their
   own society.

   Another relevant text is the story of Ali, the fourth Muslim caliph,
   whose leadership was challenged by a rival. To the fury of his zealous
   supporters, Ali agreed that conflicting claims should be submitted to
   arbitration. Posterity found Ali right and his critics wrong: human
   institutions do have a place in settling issues of state.

   From Cairo to California

   For anyone who looks to Islam's foundational texts as the ultimate
   arbiter of truth, these are resonant allusions. But arguments in
   favour of Islam's compatibility with democracy are in perpetual danger
   of being drowned out by a mixture of depressing news from Muslim lands
   and zealous ideologues on both sides of a looming civilisational
   divide.

   Whether or not they condone violence, many of the most strident
   advocates of "political Islam" still take their cue from Sayyid Qutb,
   an Egyptian thinker, executed in 1966, who regarded secular democracy
   (and all other secular forms of government, including socialism) as
   blasphemy pure and simple. In places ranging from British campuses to
   the jails and torture chambers of Uzbekistan, there are zealous
   ideologues who follow the Qutbist line that all human agencies of
   power are a violation of the sovereignty of God. Neatly converging
   with the anti-democratic zeal of these malcontents is an increasingly
   respectable argument, among sceptical Western observers of Islam,
   which holds that the Muslim faith, by its very nature, cannot be other
   than theocratic. If that is true, then encouraging moderate--in the
   sense of apolitical--versions of Islam can only be a waste of time.

   In the United States, in particular, an"essentialist" mistrust of
   Islam in all its forms has been gaining ground. One recent sign of
   this mood: when Keith Ellison from Minnesota became the first Muslim
   congressman, he was challenged, during his first television interview,
   to prove that he was not "working for our enemies".

   But in America's free-ranging debates, where the spectrum of views on
   Islam is probably wider than in any Muslim land or even in Europe,
   there are also many voices on the other side. Mr Fadl makes his case
   for the compatibility of democracy and Islam from the University of
   California at Los Angeles, probably a more secure setting than his
   native Cairo.

   Meanwhile Firas Ahmad, a columnist who co-edits a glossy Muslim
   monthly from his home in Boston, maintains that a lot of Islamic
   history--as well as the dilemmas of modern times--should be
   reconsidered in the light of the robust separation between religion
   and state which (on his reading, at least), Muslims have quite
   frequently, and cheerfully, maintained. In modern America, Muslims can
   make a big contribution to debates about greed and social justice,
   while fully respecting the country's secular constitution. And his
   favourite passages in history are the bits where believers (often
   courageous Sufi mystics) spoke truth to power, not the instances when
   pliant greybeards did favours to the sultan.

   There are, in short, many interesting things to say about Islam and
   democracy. The pity is that they are mostly being said in the West,
   not in Islam's heartland.


   Heads of state, past and present, are increasingly being brought to
   book for crimes committed while in office

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   WHEN Charles Taylor, then president of Liberia, was charged with 11
   counts of war crimes, crimes against humanity and other atrocities in
   June 2003, few thought he would be captured, let alone ever brought to
   justice. But this week, four and a half years after his indictment,
   his trial proper at last began in The Hague. Mr Taylor, now aged 59,
   is the first former African head of state to face an international
   war-crimes court.

   Just a few years ago, such an event would have been almost
   inconceivable. However brutal or corrupt, Africa's leaders used to
   shield one another from justice for fear that their turn could come
   next. But the remarkable spread of international justice over the past
   decade has brought about an equally remarkable change in attitudes
   towards prosecuting former heads of state, not just in Africa but
   throughout the world. No fewer than ten former presidents and military
   dictators are facing legal proceedings for human-rights offences
   and/or corruption, some in international tribunals, others in their
   own domestic courts, a few in other countries' courts.

   In Peru, ex-President Alberto Fujimori is on trial for human-rights
   violations and fraud. He has already been sentenced to six years in
   jail for abuse of power. In Cambodia, Khieu Samphan, president from
   1976 to 1979, is in jail awaiting his turn before a new UN-backed
   tribunal set up to try Khmer Rouge leaders. And in Senegal, Hissne
   Habr, ex-president of Chad, is awaiting trial for crimes against
   humanity before a special court being set up in Dakar.

   Meanwhile, General Suharto, Indonesia's former dictator, aged 86, has
   once again been rushed to hospital in the midst of legal proceedings
   for graft. Previous moves to prosecute him--he is alleged to have
   embezzled $1.54 billion during his 32-year reign--have failed on
   grounds of ill health. But he may have cried wolf too often. Despite
   the general's reported "critical" condition, Indonesia's
   attorney-general vowed to press ahead regardless with civil
   proceedings against him.

   Until recently, heads of state and government, past or present, were
   commonly seen as immune from prosecution for acts, however vile,
   performed as part of their official functions. But in a landmark
   decision in 1999 involving Augusto Pinochet, Chile's ex-dictator,
   Britain's law lords ruled that there could be no immunity for certain
   international crimes such as torture, and that Pinochet could
   therefore be extradited to Spain.

   The fact that the octogenarian was never extradited, being allowed to
   return to Chile instead because of ill health, did not matter. A taboo
   had been broken. A previously hesitant Chile then brought its own
   charges against the ex-president. Although Pinochet died (in December
   2006) before his trial began, the floodgates had been opened. Others
   now felt free to pursue their own tyrants.

   In Latin America, home to many odious military regimes in the 1970s
   and 1980s, charges have been brought--mostly for crimes against
   humanity--against half a dozen former rulers. In Suriname, the trial
   is about to begin of ex-dictator Desi Bouterse, for his role in the
   summary execution of 15 political opponents in 1982. In Uruguay,
   another former ruler, Juan Mara Bordaberry, is about to be tried on
   charges relating to murders and "disappearances" in the 1970s.

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                              Wanted back home: Mrs Pern

   Meanwhile, in Spain, Mara Estela Pern, who succeeded her husband as
   Argentina's president in 1974, is awaiting the outcome of two
   extradition requests from Argentina on charges relating to the killing
   of hundreds of left-wing militants by government-backed execution
   squads.

   She hopes the Spanish courts will adopt the same position as
   Guatemala's Constitutional Court, which last month ruled against the
   extradition to Spain of Efran Ros Montt, a former Guatemalan
   dictator, on charges of genocide. Mexico's ex-president, Luis
   Echeverra, may also have been let off the hook after charges relating
   to the killing of student protesters, in 1968 and thereafter, were
   dismissed in July by a Mexican court for falling outside a statute of
   limitations. For most international crimes, there is no time limit.

   Manuel Noriega, a former Panamanian despot, is likely to be less
   lucky. After completing a 17-year sentence in America for
   drug-smuggling in September, he began fighting an extradition request
   by France, where he has already been sentenced in absentia to ten
   years in prison for money-laundering. On January 9th a Florida judge
   rejected his appeal against extradition. He will now probably face a
   retrial.

   Sometimes a country may, of course, be unwilling or unable to
   prosecute its own leaders. In such cases, an international tribunal,
   like the UN-backed Special Court for Sierra Leone, which is trying
   Charles Taylor (in a courtroom loaned from the International Criminal
   Court in The Hague), may step in. All five international tribunals set
   up over the past 15 years explicitly exclude immunity (or amnesty) for
   heads of state charged with war crimes or other atrocities. Mr Taylor
   is only the second serving head of state to be charged with war crimes
   after Slobodan Milosevic. Like Pinochet, the Serb tyrant escaped jail
   by death--in 2006.

   If no competent international tribunal can be found, a country
   unconnected with the case may decide to bring a prosecution in its
   national courts under the principle of "universal jurisdiction". This
   allows a country to try the perpetrator of a serious international
   crime even if neither he nor his victims are nationals and the crime
   has not been committed on its soil. At least eight European countries
   have adopted the principle. It was invoked by Britain in the Pinochet
   case, and also by Belgium to prosecute Mr Habr--until the African
   Union was shamed into asking Senegal, his country of exile, to try him
   instead.

   Exile, once the choice of many a deposed tyrant, no longer seems so
   safe. When Mr Taylor was handed over in 2006 to Sierra Leone's Special
   Court by Nigeria, where he had taken refuge in 2003, Libya's
   president, Muammar Qaddafi, noted nervously that a precedent had been
   set. "This means that every head of state could meet a similar fate,"
   he said. Quite so.


   Needed: a new way to get the Kyoto bargain to work 

   SOME sceptics say the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), part of the
   Kyoto protocol, is like paying someone else to stop smoking for you.
   The basic idea: projects that cut or prevent emissions of greenhouse
   gases in poor countries earn credits, which can be bought by rich
   countries in lieu of curbing their own emissions. After a slow start
   China now leads the pack in using the CDM, accounting for 61% of the
   market in 2006, which was worth nearly $5 billion.

   The logical next stage for the CDM is a switch to a "programmatic"
   approach. Instead of approving abatement projects one at a time, this
   would allow similar projects to be grouped together for approval.
   Typical examples might include rural biogas, solar water-heating and
   small hydropower projects, all of which deliver
   "sustainable-development" gains too, says Anne Arquit Niederberger of
   Policy Solution, a consultancy.

   One specific idea comes from the Joint US-China Co-operation on Clean
   Energy, a non-profit group. It plans to distribute 10m free compact
   fluorescent lamps to homes in China. This could save around 3.5m
   tonnes of carbon-dioxide emissions over four years. This is one of
   three projects being studied as a model for a future approach to the
   CDM. Sceptics are posing some hard questions: who will monitor
   individual projects within a programme? What if the market is flooded
   with credits, and prices crash? Findings from a forthcoming World Bank
   report on the CDM in China will be discussed in Bali; but this may
   produce more questions than answers.


   The scale of an unspeakable horror

   FROM Bosnia's rape camps and the horrors of Rwanda's genocide in the
   1990s to the atrocities being perpetrated daily in northern Congo and
   Sudan's Darfur region, the tally of body bags runs alongside another
   grim body count: the numbers of women and girls, but in some places
   men and boys too, subjected to rape and other forms of sexual
   violence. Reliable and comprehensive figures are hard to come by:
   victims are often too traumatised or too fearful to speak out. But a
   report on "Sexual Violence in Armed Conflict" by the Geneva-based
   Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces (DCAF) picks its way
   as systematically as it can through conflict after conflict, in
   Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe and the Middle East, piecing
   together the evidence.

   It is grim reading. In Bosnia's war up to 50,000 women were subject to
   sexual violence; over 14 years perhaps 40% of Liberia's population
   suffered similar abuse; just under half those interviewed in a
   randomised study in Sierra Leone in 2000 had been raped, and more than
   a quarter had been gang-raped.

   Such sexual violence can lead to severe physical as well as
   psychological damage: high numbers of fistula cases have been reported
   during conflicts in Burundi, Chad, Congo, Rwanda, Sierra Leone,
   Liberia and elsewhere. An earlier DCAF report recorded that an
   estimated 70% of Rwanda's rape survivors were infected with HIV/AIDS.
   The offspring of such violence are often stigmatised or abandoned as
   "children of hate". In other words, the damaging health, economic and
   social consequences live on long after conflicts end.

   Can such violence be curbed? In Darfur, marauding militias prey on
   women and children collecting firewood, food or animal fodder outside
   refugee camps. In some places, African Union peacekeepers have sent
   out trucks with soldiers to follow the women and provide as much
   protection as they can.

   Alongside practical initiatives like these "firewood patrols", DCAF
   calls, as have earlier UN resolutions, for more women peacekeepers.
   They get along better with locals and also improve the behaviour of
   their male counterparts (in Congo in 2005 the UN registered 72
   allegations of sexual violence of one sort or another against its own
   troops; 20 were substantiated). The percentage of women serving in UN
   military and police units is tiny; but some women have recently had
   senior posts in UN missions. And earlier this year Liberia received
   the UN's first-ever all-female contingent--103 Indian policewomen. It
   would help, says DCAF, if victims of sexual violence were more
   involved and better cared for in programmes for disarmament and
   demobilisation.

   But when it comes to curbing sexual violence during conflict, ending a
   culture of impunity is key. The statute of the International Criminal
   Court allows for the prosecution of rape and similar violence as war
   crimes, crimes against humanity and even potentially as acts of
   genocide. Earlier this year the chief prosecutor decided to focus one
   of the court's investigations on atrocities carried out in 2002-03 in
   the Central African Republic--where rapes may have exceeded murders.

   The increasing use of rape, by governments as well as militias, as a
   weapon of war is to be the target of a UN General Assembly resolution
   that is expected to pass soon. After intense lobbying by Sudan (the
   resolution named no names, but evidently the shoe fitted) among the
   UN's Africa group, backed surprisingly by South Africa, the language
   of the resolution has been watered down somewhat. But it still calls
   for the UN secretary-general to report back next year on what is being
   done to protect civilians against sexual violence--and to hold to
   account, among others, governments that target their own citizens in
   this way.


   Indonesia has some worrying radicals but it seems to be following
   Turkey, with Islamists moderating as they get closer to power

                                                                   Magnum

                                   Magnum


   IS INDONESIA, the most populous Muslim-majority country, undergoing
   creeping Islamisation? It is not hard to assemble enough recent
   evidence to give Western Islamophobes goosebumps. In late December a
   mob attacked and burned a prayer house in West Java belonging to
   Ahmadiyah, a sect deemed heretical by some mainstream Islamic
   scholars. Earlier in the month the country's Christian leaders
   complained that Muslim radicals, helped by local officials, had
   carried out a string of attacks on churches. Ten Muslim militants were
   jailed for attacks on Christians on Sulawesi island, including the
   beheading of three schoolgirls. In late November the religious-affairs
   ministry barred a liberal Egyptian scholar, Nasr Hamid Abu Zayd (who
   calls the Koran a "cultural product"), from public speaking in
   Indonesia.

   Behind many recent incidents is a vigilante group, the Islam
   Defenders' Front (FPI), which in September assaulted bars, cafs and
   hotels in Bogor, near Jakarta, accusing them of violating Ramadan.
   Another rising radical force is the Indonesian chapter of
   Hizb-ut-Tahrir, which wants a caliphate to rule the whole Muslim
   world. Last August it gathered perhaps 90,000 supporters in a Jakarta
   stadium. Its leaders condemned democracy on the basis that sovereignty
   lies in God's hands, not the people's. A not dissimilar attack on
   pluralism was made in a hardline fatwa issued in 2005 by the
   Indonesian Ulemas Council (MUI). This same semi-official body recently
   demanded the banning of the liberal Egyptian scholar.

   In 2006 a poll found that one in ten Indonesians supported terrorist
   attacks like the 2002 Bali bombings if intended to "protect the
   faith". Jemaah Islamiah (JI), the terror group behind the Bali
   attacks, is still running several dozen pesantren (boarding schools),
   putting who knows what into impressionable teenage heads. The Bali
   bombers are due to be executed in the next few weeks, possibly
   triggering a backlash by radicals.

   This all sounds worrying. But Indonesia is a huge, varied and complex
   place, and the radicals--even though some have a semi-official
   platform--are a small and not very influential minority. Contrary
   evidence abounds: liberals as well as radicals are making inroads.
   They have won a big battle over a "pornography" law that Islamists
   proposed in 2006. It would have banned bikinis and short skirts, for
   non-Muslim women too, and prohibited the Hindu minority's traditional
   dances. But a public outcry forced lawmakers to strike out all the
   controversial bits--and it still has not passed in parliament. Two new
   anti-terrorist police squads have made much progress in arresting and
   breaking up JI's leadership. There have been no attacks on foreign
   targets for two years.

   As Indonesia democratised after the fall of the (secular) Suharto
   regime in 1998, local authorities gained autonomy and became directly
   elected. Many seized the opportunity to pass sharia-based laws,
   stoking fears of Islamisation. However, Greg Fealy, an Australian
   expert on Indonesian Islam, says these laws, though successful in
   winning votes for the local politicians pushing them, have usually had
   little practical impact. He recently revisited one such district,
   Tasikmalaya, where he found "there were more schoolgirls wearing the
   headscarf but just as much gambling, prostitution and drinking as
   before."

   The formerly separatist region of Aceh was allowed, under a peace pact
   with the rebels, to introduce strict sharia. The move was popular at
   first, says Sidney Jones of the International Crisis Group, a
   think-tank, but there was widespread revulsion when the authorities
   started publicly whipping miscreants. As a result the religious police
   were drastically reined in. Overall, Indonesians seem to prefer the
   idea of living under "God's law" to the practice of it. Indonesian
   Islam has always been distinct from the Middle Eastern kind, infusing
   influences from Hinduism and other religions. This will make it hard
   for fundamentalists to get far, says Muhammad Hikam, a political
   consultant.

   Whereas a relatively small number of fiery militants and
   fundamentalists get most attention, Mr Hikam says that liberal Islamic
   scholars have successfully broken the link between religious piety and
   political Islam. Indonesians seeking a more overt expression of their
   faith, as many do nowadays, can still believe in separation of mosque
   and state. As the 2009 presidential and parliamentary elections
   approach, secular parties have been attracting voters by creating
   Islamic--but not Islamist--wings. The in-phrase, says Mr Fealy, is
   Islam Lunak, "soft Islam". Pollsters are telling politicians that it
   helps to add a mild religious tinge to speeches about social justice
   and anti-corruption. But radical stuff, like preaching an Islamic
   state, is a turn-off.

   Indonesia's two biggest Muslim organisations are Nahdlatul Ulama
   (NU)--whose long-time leader, Abdurrahman Wahid was president of
   Indonesia in 1999-2001--and Muhammadiyah, which together claim around
   70m members. They indeed used to call for an Islamic state. Nowadays
   Masdar Farid Mas'udi, a senior NU figure, says all they mean by an
   "Islamic" state is a just and prosperous one. In some ways the two
   bodies have come to resemble Europe's mainstream Christian churches:
   "Catholic" NU stresses traditional rites and the authority of
   religious leaders, whereas "Protestant" Muhammadiyah stresses the
   primacy of scripture. As with Catholics and Protestants it is family
   tradition, rather than theology, that usually determines which group
   one belongs to. Both now accept Indonesia's secular founding creed,
   pancasila, which preaches religious tolerance (though you are supposed
   to believe in God).

   Moderate success

   Several of the country's political parties began life as the political
   wings of religious movements such as NU and Muhammidiyah. But the
   parties and their parent bodies have drifted apart, even as all have
   mellowed. In recent elections a more religiously conservative group,
   Prosperous Justice (PKS), has gained votes--but polls now show its
   support slumping. One reason is that it backed the pornography law and
   has suffered in the backlash against it.

   Another, admits Zulkieflimansyah, a senior PKS parliamentarian, is
   that it has joined the (secular) coalition of President Susilo Bambang
   Yudhoyono. Its popularity has suffered because of tough policies such
   as cutting fuel subsidies. Mr Zulkieflimansyah sees his party as
   undergoing a desirable process of moderation as it "encounters
   reality". PKS--like longer-established Muslim parties before it--is
   now having to ditch the fire and brimstone to transcend minority
   appeal. Rising younger figures in the party, like him, are more
   comfortable with this than its older generation, who studied in the
   Middle East. In general, the country's larger Muslim parties are
   echoing Turkey's ruling AK party--ditching Islamism while still
   appealing to the pious. Smaller ones still holding to a hard line may
   fare badly in 2009: Mr Fealy reckons that in 200 regional elections in
   the past two-and-a-half years not a single "sectarian" Muslim
   candidate has won.

   Indonesia is, overall, edging away from radical Islamism. But the
   trend is not irreversible, and the authorities must avoid fostering
   fundamentalists by pandering to them. The MUI (the council of mullahs)
   and the FPI (the vigilantes) provide a lesson: both were created, for
   temporary reasons of expediency, by the Suharto regime but both have
   lingered to haunt its democratic successors. Mr Yudhoyono now seems to
   be trying to channel the MUI's radical enthusiasm into issuing fatwas
   against "deviant" Islamic sects like Ahmadiyah. But this only
   encourages the FPI to take up its cudgels.

   Other, more important ways to make sure Indonesia stays on the path to
   democratic pluralism are to keep the economy growing and to boost
   sluggish efforts at reforming graft-ridden public institutions. High
   unemployment provides recruits for communal violence like that in
   Sulawesi--whether or not religion is the spark that ignites the
   tinder. Poverty, combined with disgust at corrupt officialdom, push
   some people towards the Utopian promises of groups such as
   Hizb-ut-Tahrir. In Indonesia, unlike most Muslim countries, the
   ideological struggle between various forms of Islam is being fought
   largely by democratic means. The violent and the intolerant are still
   at the margins and, while the country's steady progress persists, look
   likely to stay there.


                                                                  Eyevine

                                  Eyevine

   The business of marketing the Bible and the Koran says a lot about the
   state of modern Christianity and Islam 

   CHRISTIANS and Muslims have one striking thing in common: they are
   both "people of the book". And they both have an obligation to spread
   the Word--to get those Holy Books into the hands and hearts of as many
   people as they can. (The Jews, the third people of the book, do not
   feel quite the same obligation.)

   Spreading the Word is hard. The Bible is almost 800,000 words long and
   littered with tedious passages about begetting. The Koran is a mere
   four-fifths of the length of the New Testament; but some Westerners
   find it an even more difficult read. Edward Gibbon complained about
   its "endless incoherent rhapsody of fable and precept". Thomas Carlyle
   said that it was "as toilsome reading as I ever undertook; a
   wearisome, confused jumble, crude, incondite".

   Yet over 100m copies of the Bible are sold or given away every year.
   Annual Bible sales in America are worth between $425m and $650m;
   Gideon's International gives away a Bible every second. The Bible is
   available all or in part in 2,426 languages, covering 95% of the
   world's population.

   The Koran is not only the most widely read book in the Islamic world
   but also the most widely recited ("Koran" means "recitation"). There
   is no higher goal in Muslim life than to become a human repository of
   the Holy Book; there is no more common sound in the Muslim world than
   the sound of Koranic recitation.

   Reciting the Koran is the backbone of Muslim education. One of the
   most prized honorifics in Islamic society is "hafiz" or "one who has
   the entire scripture off by heart". Do so in Iran and you get an
   automatic university degree. The great recitors compete in tournaments
   that can attract audiences in the hundreds of thousands--the world
   cups of the Islamic world. The winners'CDs become instant bestsellers.

   The Bible and the Koran have both gone global. In 1900, 80% of the
   world's Christians lived in Europe and the United States. Today 60%
   live in the developing world. More Presbyterians go to church in Ghana
   than in Scotland. In 1900 Islam was concentrated in the Arab world and
   South-East Asia. Today, there may be as many practising Muslims in
   England as there are practising Anglicans; though in the 20th century,
   at least, Islam's expansion has mostly come about through population
   growth and migration, rather than conversion. Muslim "missionary"
   activity is aimed more at reinvigorating the faithful, and encouraging
   them to greater zealotry, than at winning new souls.

   This mountain of Holy Books is a giant refutation of the
   secularisation thesis--the idea that religion recedes as the world
   modernises. "The book lives on among its people," Constance Padwick, a
   scholar of the Koran, has written. "For them these are not mere
   letters or mere words. They are the twigs of the burning bush, aflame
   with God." The same can be said of the Bible.

                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images

   It also poses a couple of intriguing questions. Why are today's
   Christians and Muslims proving so successful at getting the Word out?
   And who is winning the battle of the books? Is either of the world's
   two great missionary religions gaining an edge when it comes to
   getting their Holy Books into people's hands and hearts?

   The straightforward answer to the first question is that Christians
   and Muslims are both proving remarkably adept at using the tools of
   modernity--globalisation, technology and growing wealth--to aid the
   distribution of their Holy Books. "Give me Scotland or I die," John
   Knox once cried. Today's faithful aim for the world.

   The combination of globalisation and rising wealth is proving to be a
   bonanza for both religions. The most prolific producer of Christian
   missionaries, on a per head basis, is now South Korea. The biggest
   Bible publishing houses are in Brazil and South Korea. An interlinked
   global network of 140 national or regional Bible Societies pools
   resources to reach its collective goal of putting a Bible in the hands
   of every man, woman and child on the planet. The American Bible
   Society, the biggest of the lot, has published more than 50m Bibles in
   atheist China.

   Saudi oil wealth is supercharging the distribution of the Koran. The
   kingdom gives away some 30m Korans a year, under the auspices of
   either the Muslim World League or individual billionaires,
   distributing them through a vast network of mosques, Islamic societies
   and even embassies. Go to [3]FreeKoran.com and you can have a free
   book in your hands in weeks.

   Saudi-funded dissemination of the Koran, along with literature
   promoting the stern Saudi understanding of Islam, may not have much
   direct effect on Christians, or the unchurched. But it does increase
   the relative weight, within Islam, of teachings which tend to sharpen
   the Christian-Muslim divide. For example, traditional Muslim teaching
   stresses those passages in the Koran which affirm the Christian Gospel
   and the Hebrew Torah as valid revelations of God and paths to
   salvation. But there is a harsher, Saudi-influenced view which insists
   that since Muhammad delivered the final revelation, Christianity and
   Judaism have lost their power to save.

   The Muslim diaspora and Muslim missionaries are bringing the faith to
   previously untouched areas. The Tablighi Jamaat ("the group that
   propagates the faith") is a global network of part-time preachers who
   dress like the Prophet, in a white robe and leather sandals, and
   travel in small groups to spread the Word. Their annual gatherings in
   India and Pakistan attract hundreds of thousands.

   Technology is proving to be a friend of the Holy Books. You can
   consult them on the internet. You can read them on your "Psalm pilot"
   or mobile phone. You can listen to them on MP3 players or iPods
   ("podcasting" has given rise to "Godcasting"). Want to "plug into God
   without unplugging from life"? Then simply buy a Go Bible MP3 player.
   Want to memorise the Koran? Then buy an MP3 player that displays the
   words as you listen. Want to network with like-minded people? Then the
   eBible allows you to discuss biblical passages with virtual friends.

   Several television channels and radio stations do nothing but
   broadcast the Koran. At the other end of the technological spectrum,
   the American Bible Society produces an audio device, powered by a
   battery or hand crank and no bigger than a couple of cigar boxes, that
   can broadcast the Bible to a crowd of a hundred.

                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images

                            A well-thumbed Book

   There is a difference, however, between getting and understanding a
   Holy Book. Here both Christianity and Islam suffer from serious
   problems. Americans buy more than 20m new Bibles every year to add to
   the four that the average American has at home. Yet the state of
   American biblical knowledge is abysmal. A Gallup survey found that
   less than half of Americans can name the first book of the Bible
   (Genesis), only a third know who delivered the Sermon on the Mount
   (Billy Graham is a popular answer) and a quarter do not know what is
   celebrated at Easter (the resurrection, the foundational event of
   Christianity). Sixty per cent cannot name half the ten commandments;
   12% think Noah was married to Joan of Arc. George Gallup, a leading
   Evangelical as well as a premier pollster, describes America as "a
   nation of biblical illiterates".

   Muslims greatly prefer to read the Koran in the original Arabic. Yet
   the archaic language and high-flown verse, while inspiring, can also
   be difficult to understand even for educated Arabic speakers. And only
   20% of Muslims speak Arabic as their first language. Illiteracy rates
   are high across the Muslim world. Many students of the Holy Book do
   not understand much of what they are memorising.

   This needs to be kept in mind when considering who is winning the
   battle of the books. For some, the question is an abomination. Can't
   both sides win by converting the heathen? And aren't Christianity and
   Islam fellow Abrahamic faiths--different versions of the Truth? Others
   worry that the question is impossible to answer, since there are no
   systematic figures on the distribution of the Koran, and the battle's
   front-line cuts through some of the darkest and most dangerous places
   on the planet. Muslims would argue that their struggle was aimed more
   at galvanising their own flock than at converting unbelievers. But
   Islam's relative introversion doesn't make for peaceful coexistence.
   In many parts of the world, Islamic authorities have reacted furiously
   to attempts by Christians to entice Muslims to "apostasise" or
   renounce their faith; in traditional Islamic law, the penalty for
   apostasy is death; and encouraging believers to apostasise is also
   treated as a crime.

   In many parts of the world, battle seems to be in progress. The Saudis
   will not allow the Bible to be distributed on their soil. Many
   Evangelical Christians are fixated on what they call the 10/40
   window--the vast swathe of the Islamic world in Africa and Asia that
   lies between latitudes 10 and 40 north of the equator. The
   Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary in Texas has even created a
   masters degree to train missionaries in the art of converting Muslims.
   Some Evangelicals produce counterfeit Korans that are designed to
   plant doubt in Muslim minds.

   And the battle of the books is certainly at the heart of the battle
   between the two religions. People who get hold of Bibles or Korans may
   not read them or understand them. Unless they are introduced to the
   books they will certainly remain heathens. Even an imperfect report on
   the state of the battle tells us a lot about the world's two great
   missionary religions.

   The Christians entered the 21st century with a big head start. There
   are 2 billion of them in the world compared with 1.5 billion Muslims.
   But Islam had a better 20th century than Christianity. The world's
   Muslim population grew from 200m in 1900 to its current levels.
   Christianity has shrivelled in Christendom's European heart. Islam is
   resurgent across the Arab world. Many Christian scholars predict that
   Islam will overtake Christianity as the world's largest religion by
   2050.

   More recently, though, Muslims complain that the "war on terror" is
   making it much more difficult to spread the Koran. Contributions to
   Muslim charities have fallen since September 11th 2001. Several
   charities have had their funding disrupted. Missionary organisations
   such as the Tablighi Jamaat are under investigation by Western
   intelligence services, on the grounds that they may be way-stations to
   jihadism. And Muslims confront much bigger long-term problems in the
   battle of the books.

   The first is Christianity's superior marketing skills. Its religious
   publishing houses are big businesses. Thomas Nelson, which was once
   owned by a former door-to-door Bible salesman, was bought in 2005 for
   $473m. And secular publishing houses have also got religion:
   HarperCollins bought Zondervan, a religious book publisher, in the
   late 1980s, and now most mainstream publishers are trying to produce
   their own Bibles. As a result, all the tricks of the publisher's trade
   are being applied to the Bible.

   Consider product proliferation. Thomas Nelson publishes 60 different
   editions of the Bible every year. The Good Book now comes in all
   colours, including those of your college. There are Bibles for every
   sort of person, from "seekers" to cowboys, from brides to barmen.
   There is a waterproof outdoor Bible and a camouflage Bible for use in
   war zones. The "100 minute Bible" summarises the Good Book for the
   time-starved.

   Consider user-friendliness. There are prayer books in everyday
   vernacular or even street slang ("And even though I walk through/The
   Hood of death/I don't back down/for you have my back"). Or consider
   innovation. In 2003 Thomas Nelson dreamt up the idea of
   Bible-zines--crosses between Bibles and teenage magazines. The pioneer
   was Revolve, which intercuts the New Testament with beauty tips and
   relationship advice ("are you dating a Godly guy?"). This was quickly
   followed by Refuel, for boys, and Blossom and Explore, for tweens.

                                                  [spacer.gif] [gray.gif]
                                                             [spacer.gif]
          The world's richest and most powerful country contains some 80m
                                                             Evangelicals
                                                             [spacer.gif]
                                                               [gray.gif]

   There are toddler-friendly versions of the most famous Bible stories.
   The "Boy's Bible" promises "gross and gory Bible stuff". The "Picture
   Bible" looks like a super-hero comic. "God's Little Princess
   Devotional Bible" is pink and sparkly.

   There are about 900 English translations of the Bible, ranging from
   the grandiloquent to the colloquial. There are translations into
   languages, such as Inupiat and Gullah, that are spoken by only
   handfuls of people. Bob Hudson, of the American Bible Society, wants
   everybody on the planet to be able to claim that "God speaks my
   language". A couple of eccentric geeks have even translated the Bible
   into Klingon, a language spoken only by scrofulous space aliens on
   "Star Trek".

   Publishers are producing sophisticated dramatisations of the Bible
   with famous actors and state-of-the-art sound effects. Zondervan's
   "The Bible Experience" features every black actor in Hollywood from
   Denzel Washington to Samuel L. Jackson. Other outfits are making films
   that dramatise Bible stories as faithfully as possible.

   And then there are the spin-offs. A "fully posable" Jesus doll recites
   famous passages of the Good Book. There are Bible quiz books, stuffed
   with crosswords and other word puzzles, and Bible bingo games. There
   are Bible colouring books, sticker books and floor puzzles. There is
   even a Bible-based juke box that plays your favourite biblical
   passages.

   Muslims have also gone into the Holy Book business, but nowhere near
   as enthusiastically as Christians. This is partly because their
   commercial publishing houses are smaller and less sophisticated, but
   also because Muslims believe that the Koran is the literal word of
   God--dictated to Muhammad (who was himself illiterate) by the Angel
   Gabriel and then written down by Muhammad's followers. "The Koran does
   not document what is other than itself," one scholar notes. "It is not
   about the truth. It is the truth."

                                                            Thomas Nelson
                                                            Thomas Nelson

   This makes Muslims uncomfortable with translations. The Holy Book says
   sternly that "we have sent no messenger save with the tongue of his
   people." Today most Muslims tolerate translations--there are now more
   than 20 English translations--but do so reluctantly. Most translations
   are as literal as possible. Pious Muslims are expected to learn God's
   language.

   The second advantage the Christians have is America. The world's
   richest and most powerful country contains some 80m Evangelicals. It
   supports more missionaries, more broadcasting organisations and more
   global publishers than any other country. Despite some countries' oil
   wealth, the Koran's heartland is relatively poor. The Arab world has
   one of the highest illiteracy rates in the world, with a fifth of men
   and two-fifths of women unable to read. It also has one of the lowest
   rates of internet usage.

   The third big advantage is the West's belief in religious
   freedom--guaranteed in America by the constitution, and in Europe by
   an aversion to religious persecution caused by centuries of it. The
   heartland of Islam, by contrast, is theocratic. The Saudi Ministry of
   Islamic Affairs, Endowment, Call and Guidance employs 120,000 people,
   including 72,000 imams. Saudi Arabia bans non-Islamic worship and
   regards attempts to convert Muslims to another faith as a criminal
   offence. Pakistan has witnessed the attacks on Christian missionaries.
   Sudan punishes "religious deviation" with imprisonment.

   Christian Evangelists complain that this creates an uneven playing
   field: Muslims can build giant mosques in "Christian lands" while
   Christians are barred from distributing Bibles in Saudi Arabia and
   Iran. But uneven playing fields tend to weaken the home players. Open
   competition is a boon to religion: American Evangelism has flourished
   precisely because America has no official church. And theocracy is
   ultimately a source of sloth and conservatism. "The Book and the
   Koran", by Muhammad Shahrur, which tried to reinterpret the Koran for
   modern readers, was widely banned in the Islamic world, despite its
   pious tone and huge popularity.

   This state-of-the-battle report comes with a health warning.
   Predicting the fate of religions is unwise, for they can burn or
   gutter in unpredictable ways. But two things are certain in the battle
   of the books. The first is that the urge to spread the Word will spark
   some of the fiercest conflicts of the 21st century. The area that is
   being most heavily fought over--sub-Saharan Africa--is a tinder box of
   failed states and ethnic animosities. The second is that the Bible and
   the Koran will continue to exercise a dramatic influence over human
   events, for both good and ill. The twigs of the burning bush are still
   aflame with the fire of God.


   An article ("[3]The Maladies of Affluence", August 11th) wrongly
   called Plymouth Rock the first permanent European settlement in North
   America. Apologies to the inhabitants of Mexico City (Corts arrived
   1519); St Augustine, Florida (1565); St John's, Newfoundland (1605),
   and anyone else with a prior claim.


   Curbing dangerous nuclear technologies gets trickier

   WHEN Russia announced it had started shipping low-enriched uranium
   fuel to power the civilian nuclear reactor it is helping Iran build at
   Bushehr, George Bush tried to squeeze some comfort out of a piece of
   news which--for the international effort to curb Iran's nuclear
   ambitions--was a disappointing about-turn. "If the Iranians accept
   that [Russian] uranium for a civilian power plant, then there's no
   need for them to learn how to enrich," he said on December 17th.

   True, in theory. But Iran refuses to follow such logic. By making
   long-delayed fuel shipments to Bushehr now, Russia will weaken further
   the UN Security Council effort to end Iran's defiance. It also risks
   undermining plans to limit the spread of dangerous nuclear
   technologies at a time when many governments, including a number in
   the volatile Middle East, plan to invest in nuclear power.

   Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, insists Iran will not stop its
   own fuel-making: another 50,000 or more will eventually be added to
   the 3,000 centrifuge machines now spinning at its uranium-enrichment
   plant at Natanz. These, say its nuclear officials, will provide
   low-enriched uranium (used for making electricity, but at higher
   enrichment levels for bomb-making) for a separate, indigenously built
   360MW reactor at Darkhovin, in the province of Khuzistan.

   This is a puzzle. Iranian engineers are already building a 40MW
   "research" reactor at Arak that is worryingly too big for research,
   too small for electricity generation and ideally suited to produce
   plutonium (another bomb ingredient) from its spent fuel, but they lack
   skills both in reactor design and in the manufacture of the larger
   parts needed for power reactors, says Gary Samore of the New
   York-based Council on Foreign Relations. Unless Iran gets outside help
   (the Arak designs were provided by freelancing Russian scientists),
   Darkhovin could be just an excuse for Iran's continuing its own
   enrichment work.

   With Iran so obdurate, why the changed tack over Bushehr? In 2005
   Russia said no fuel would go while questions remained about Iran's
   peaceful intentions. But inspectors have plenty of those.

   Holding back on the fuel for Bushehr was one bit of Russian leverage
   in the nuclear dispute with Iran that is now being lost. Similarly, Mr
   Bush's refusal to take the option of a strike against Iran's nuclear
   facilities off the table seems a lot less credible since a recent
   National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) concluded that Iran had suspended
   some elements of a weapons programme in 2003. (Israel and some
   European governments are worried those efforts may have resumed; and
   they and American officials point out that at the very least Iran
   persists with its potentially weapons-usable enrichment work.)

   Russia's decision on fuel shipments was made before the NIE was
   published. Commercial concerns may have tipped Russia's hand, says
   Mark Fitzpatrick of the London-based International Institute for
   Strategic Studies, a think-tank. It wants to be seen as a reliable
   supplier, so as to pick up more reactor contracts from others. Russia,
   America, some Europeans, Japan and others with advanced nuclear
   fuel-related technologies also have ideas for fuel-supply services and
   spent-fuel management as an incentive for governments not to follow in
   Iran's nuclear footsteps. But Russia is helping Iran show you can have
   it all.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

                   At last, some relatively welcome news

   The global AIDS epidemic is still bad, but not as bad as it once
   seemed

   ON THE face of things, a fall in the number of people infected with
   HIV (the virus that causes AIDS) from 39.5m to 33.2m over the course
   of a single year, as reported in this year's AIDS epidemic update from
   the World Health Organisation (WHO) and UNAIDS, should be cause for
   rejoicing. Indeed, it is, for it means there are fewer people to
   treat, and fewer to pass the infection on, than was previously
   thought. But the fall is not a real fall. Rather, it is due to a
   change in the way the size of the epidemic is estimated.

   If you factor in that change, the number of infected individuals has
   actually risen since last year, by 500,000. Yet even that is not
   necessarily bad news in the paradoxical world of AIDS. As treatment
   programmes are rolled out around the world, death rates are falling.
   According to the revised figures, the lethal peak, of 2.2m a year, was
   in 2005. Now the figure is 2.1m. Since the only way for an infected
   person to drop out of the statistics in reality (as opposed to by
   sleight of statistical hand) is for him to die, such increased
   survivorship inevitably pushes up the total size of the epidemic.

   The best news of all, however, is that the new figures confirm what
   had previously been suspected--that the epidemic has peaked. The
   highest annual number of new infections around the world was 3.4m in
   1998. That figure has now fallen to 2.5m.

   Both the change in the death rate and the change in the infection rate
   are partly a consequence of the natural flow and ebb of any epidemic
   infection. But they are also a reflection of the hard graft of
   public-health workers in many countries, who have persuaded millions
   of people to modify or abandon risky behaviour, such as having
   unprotected sex, as they have also created the medical infrastructure
   needed to distribute anti-retroviral drugs that can keep symptoms at
   bay in those who do become infected.

   The revision of the figures is mainly a result of better
   data-collection methods, particularly in India (which accounts for
   half the downward revision) and five African countries (which account
   for another fifth). In India many more sampling points have been
   established, and in all countries better survey methods, relying on
   surveyors knocking on doors rather than asking questions at clinics,
   have gathered data from more representative samples.

   Sceptics will feel vindicated by the revision. They have suspected for
   a while that the older survey methods were biased, and that the
   inflation thus produced was tolerated because it helped twang the
   heart-strings of potential donors. However, the structures for
   collecting and distributing money to combat AIDS are now well
   established, and accurate data are crucial if that money is not to be
   misdirected. The new information also means that the goal of treatment
   for all who need it will be easier and cheaper to achieve. The WHO and
   UNAIDS are planning to publish a report on the matter early next year,
   but Paul De Lay, UNAIDS's director of evidence, monitoring and policy,
   says that the financial requirements for 2010 will probably be about
   5% less than previously estimated, and that by 2015 that figure will
   have risen to 10%. Good news for everyone, then, donors and sufferers
   alike.


   Rapid internet services are a boon. But not all regulators understand
   them

   IN ERAS past, economic success depended on creating networks that
   could shift people, merchandise and electric power as efficiently and
   as widely as possible. Today's equivalent is broadband: the high-speed
   internet service that has become as vital a tool for producers and
   distributors of goods as it is for people plugging into all the social
   and cultural opportunities offered by the web.

   Easy access to cheap, fast internet services has become a facilitator
   of economic growth and a measure of economic performance. No wonder,
   then, that statistics show a surge in broadband use, especially in
   places that are already prosperous. The OECD, a rich-country club,
   says the number of subscribers in its 30 members was 221m last June--a
   24% leap over a year earlier. But it is not always the most powerful
   economies that are most wired. In Denmark, the Netherlands and
   Switzerland, over 30% of inhabitants have broadband. In America, by
   contrast, the proportion is 22%, only slightly above the OECD average
   of just under 20%.

   In terms of speed, Japan leads the world. Its average advertised
   download speed is 95 megabits per second. France and Korea are ranked
   second and third, but are less than half as fast, and the median among
   OECD countries is not much more than a tenth. America's average speed
   is supposed to be a bit above the median, but most users find that it
   isn't, or that the faster speeds are vastly more expensive. A New
   Yorker who wants the same quality of broadband as a Parisian has to
   pay around $150 more per month.

   What accounts for the differences among rich countries? Two or three
   years ago demography was often cited: small, densely populated
   countries were easier to wire up than big, sparsely inhabited ones.
   But the leaders in broadband usage include Canada, where a tiny
   population is spread over a vast area. The best explanation, in fact,
   is that broadband thrives on a mix of competition and active
   regulation, to ensure an open contest.

   A lack of competition-boosting oversight is one reason for the poor
   record of the United States (and indeed for New Zealand, another
   unexpected laggard). Most Americans have a choice of only two
   broadband providers, either a telecoms or a cable operator. This
   virtual duopoly suits both sorts of provider, and neither has raced to
   offer its customers faster access. In some American states, prices
   have risen; in most other countries they have dropped.

   In theory, America's 1996 Telecoms Act obliged operators to rent out
   their lines to rivals; in practice, a regulatory decision and then a
   court ruling (in 2003 and 2004 respectively) have made it easy for
   operators to keep competitors out. The supposed aim of these decisions
   was to force new firms to build their own infrastructure, instead of
   piggybacking on facilities set up by older outfits. But new entrants
   have found it hard to join the fray.

   In any event, those American rulings may have been based on a faulty
   idea of how competition works in this area. As Taylor Reynolds, an
   OECD analyst, puts it, innovation usually comes in steps: newcomers
   first rent space on an existing network, to build up customers and
   income. Then they create new and better infrastructure, as and when
   they need it.

   In France, for example, the regulator forced France Tlcom to rent
   out its lines. One small start-up firm benefited from this opportunity
   and then installed technology that was much faster than any of its
   rivals'. It won so many customers that other operators had to follow
   suit. In Canada, too, the regulator mandated line-sharing, and
   provinces subsidised trunk lines from which smaller operators could
   lease capacity to provide service.

   In South Korea, where half the population lives in flats, each block
   owns its own internal cabling and allows rival operators to put their
   equipment in the basement; each tenant then chooses which to use. In
   Japan, politicians put pressure on the dominant operator, NTT, to
   connect people's homes by high-speed fibre lines. And this week the
   communications ministry indicated that it will make NTT open those
   fibre connections to rivals.

   As broadband grows more popular, the political mood may change in many
   countries. At present, consumers are often misled by the speeds that
   operators promise to deliver. Soon regulators can expect to face
   pressure to ensure truth in advertising, as well as to promote easier
   access.

   Pressure will also come to correct another problem: most operators cap
   the amount of traffic users may send and receive each month, and
   nearly all provide far less speed for sending than for receiving. In
   other words, broadband doesn't really offer a two-way street. This
   will matter more as users turn into creators of content, from videos
   to blogs, and ask to be treated with due respect.


   Electronic activism is stirring a lot of citizens into life, whatever
   leaders think 

   WHATEVER might unite or divide them, George Bush, Vladimir Putin and
   the other leaders of the G8 nations will have a fresh topic for small
   talk, and perhaps serious talk, when they meet in Germany this summer.

   They and their underlings will all have been bombarded with e-mails
   from every country in the world urging them to take faster action over
   climate change--in a campaign mounted by [3]Avaaz.org, a new web-based
   protest movement which aspires to be the biggest and broadest such
   organisation in a crowded field.

   The newly founded movement claims to have nearly 1m members already,
   after pooling resources from three of the world's most successful
   mobilisers of e-protest: America's [4]Moveon.org (which gave important
   help to some Democrats in last year's congressional election), [5]Res
   Publica (an American-based, but globally-minded advocacy movement
   which often reflects the "religious left") and Australia's
   [6]GetUp.org.au, which has used billboards and sky-writing as well as
   e-mails to campaign for things like refugee rights and the release of
   an Aussie (arrested in Afghanistan in 2001) from Guantnamo Bay.

   As television viewers in Berlin, Delhi, Paris and Washington, DC will
   have noticed in recent days, Avaaz.org has chosen global warming as
   the focus of its first big campaign. It has paid for TV advertisements
   which show George Bush, Vladimir Putin and Jacques Chirac lying fast
   asleep while evidence of climate change swirls all around them.
   Viewers are invited to visit the Avaaz site and push the necessary
   button to give the world leaders a deafening wake-up call.

   Ricken Patel, the Canadian-British director of Avaaz--a name which
   means "voice" in several languages--says one of the intentions is to
   act as a lightning rod during "moments of global consciousness" such
   as the aftermath of the 9/11 terrorist attacks or the 2004 tsunami. He
   cites the battle against AIDS, curbs on landmines and poor-world debt
   forgiveness as issues on which the thinking of the powerful has
   already been swayed by grass-roots activism, much of it electronically
   co-ordinated.

   But there are catches, aren't there? As the e-protest movement grows
   broader, its focus will surely become less sharp. After all, everyone
   can agree that governments should "do more" about climate change, but
   when it comes to choosing between specific responses it may be harder
   to teach the world to click in perfect harmony.

   And there is no reason to assume that global e-campaigns will always
   be mounted in "progressive" causes: what about e-movements for the
   death penalty, or for more curbs on immigration? But the founders of
   Avaaz do have at least one argument on their side. Voters' faith in
   old-fashioned parties is at a low ebb in many democracies. One of the
   proudest boasts by GetUp, the Australian movement, is that it has more
   members than any of the country's parties have signed-up members.
   E-protest may or may not disrupt the sleep patterns of world leaders;
   but it has already made life more interesting for hundreds of
   thousands of jaded citizens.


   Wanted: medicine for a group whose voice is still too small to be
   heard

   IMAGINE a class of human beings, amounting to about one-third of
   world's population, whose needs are barely noticed by the people who
   are dealing with all the most pressing public-health problems. In
   fact, such a group exists: children, especially those in poor
   countries who are often among the first victims of epidemics and other
   life-threatening upheavals.

   According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), about 60 essential
   medicines are unavailable in formulations appropriate for use by
   children. A general lack of child-friendly drugs has been made more
   obvious by the particular difficulty of treating children with
   HIV/AIDS, who have to ingest massive doses of nasty stuff. "Some kids
   with HIV need to take 12 huge tablets a day...and they taste
   horrible," says Hans Hogerzeil, a specialist on medicines at the WHO.
   There are no suitable combination drugs--medicines that have two or
   more active ingredients, thus reducing the number of pills needed--no
   soluble tablets and very few syrups, he adds.

   In the hope of making these and other medicines go down in at least a
   more bearable way, the WHO is trying to raise $50m from its member
   governments, for a fund that would kick-start the development of
   children's drugs--and highlight the need for governments and firms to
   pay more attention to youngsters' medical needs. Some rich countries
   have already taken steps in that direction. For example, America's
   Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act, passed in 2002, puts more onus
   on the Food and Drug Administration to take children's needs into
   account when certifying drugs. But that law has more to do with
   avoiding risk to children than with helping positively to treat them.

   Creating new drugs for children, especially babies, is not a
   straightforward business. Children metabolise drugs in a way that is
   quite different from adults. And when combination drugs are put
   together--for HIV/AIDS, for example--the proportions that suit
   children are not the same as those needed by grown-ups. In fact,
   combination pills for children can be three times more expensive than
   adult doses, because they are harder to make. Still, the WHO has
   identified a dozen combination drugs that ought to be developed in
   order to treat children with malaria, tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS.

   The WHO wants some of its proposed fund to pay for the basic research
   necessary to create children's formulations. It will initially focus
   on a small group of diseases that account for most deaths among the
   under-fives, including HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, pneumonia and
   various forms of diarrhoea. The biggest problems in children's
   medicine concern diseases that afflict the poor. But the shortage of
   child-friendly medicine is not confined to poor countries. Even in
   Europe, fewer than half of the drugs administered to children have
   been tested and authorised for their use. And there are gaps in the
   treatment of diseases not unusual among rich-world children, including
   epilepsy and psychotic conditions.

   At present, very few clinical trials are conducted in children, partly
   because obtaining "informed consent" is hardly possible. (The WHO
   hopes that countries can at least compare notes on how to get round
   that problem.) This in turn deters pharmaceutical firms from
   researching and developing child-friendly medicines, and generic drug
   producers from producing low-cost versions. And before testing any new
   formulation on children, paediatric specialists have to make very hard
   judgments about the benefits and risks.

   However, there are also risks in not creating children's drugs. At the
   moment, the lack of proper formulations forces health workers and
   parents to use fractions of the adult dosage; or else they resort to
   makeshift solutions such as crushing pills (and mixing them with
   something nice) or dissolving portions of capsules in water.

   The WHO's hope is that by putting some public funds into research, it
   will lessen the risks for private firms, and simultaneously "convince
   and shame them into investing a bit more". The Geneva-based body is
   also giving gentle encouragement to those companies that have already
   started trying to close some of the more scandalous gaps. For example,
   the latest drugs for malaria, based on artemisin, have no
   child-friendly version, despite the fact that fully 40% of malaria
   cases occur in children. Sanofi-aventis, a pharmaceutical firm based
   in Paris, has been working to develop a new malaria drug for children.
   The WHO is backing this effort by helping the company make
   evaluations; the drug may soon--perhaps as early as February--be
   approved for UN procurement.

   As for tuberculosis, another deadly killer of the young, no effective,
   child-friendly drug exists at present, even though the scientific
   knowledge to produce one certainly does. That is just one reason, say
   the policymakers at the WHO, why urgent action is needed to give that
   big, voiceless interest group a better chance of growing up.


   Good news, but no certainty of salvation, for forests and their
   friends


   IF THE Bali conference on climate change brought good news to anyone,
   it must surely be the inhabitants of the rainforests and others
   committed to preserving those trees. But their reactions have been
   mixed, ranging from delight to scepticism.

   For rainforest campaigners, the Bali statement's allusion to an urgent
   need for "meaningful action to reduce emissions from deforestation and
   forest degradation" was a sweet victory, even if the only concrete
   step in that direction was a "work programme" to test various
   approaches.

   Under the current regime (expiring in 2012), financial rewards for
   storing carbon through trees were attached only to reforestation or
   planting new forests. That restriction became hard to justify as
   evidence mounted that the destruction of tropical forests caused as
   much as 20% of heat-trapping greenhouse emissions.

   But including "avoided deforestation" in a post-2012 strategy will
   transform the politics of climate change, globally and inside some
   countries. For example, with deforestation taken into account,
   Indonesia and Brazil soar up the table to become the world's third-
   and fourth-largest emitters.

   When the Kyoto protocol was negotiated, deforestation was excluded
   partly on scientific grounds; people couldn't agree on its precise
   effects, or on how to measure the carbon loss. Those problems have now
   been laid to rest by better technology.

   But other things have not been settled. Brazil's leaders want a system
   to reward whole countries for bringing their deforestation rates down
   to pre-1990 levels and keeping them there. It so happens that Brazil
   may be the only nation that qualifies. Most other people (including
   the governor of Brazil's Amazonas state and its indigenous leaders)
   back a more local and market-based approach.

   In any case, systems that rely on the honesty and power of governments
   will run into problems. Zealous greens are wary of carbon-trading on
   the moral ground that it lets the rich off the hook; in fact,
   investors in carbon markets will be the first to shun conservation
   projects that are manifestly failing because of bad government or
   corruption.

   Take Indonesia, where 80% of deforestation is of dubious legality.
   Weak law enforcement is the main problem. Contradictory
   policies--resulting, recently, in a spat between police and the
   forestry ministry in Sumatra--are another. A decade ago, Indonesia's
   illegal logging mainly served the pulp and timber industries. Now palm
   oil, an "ecological" product, is the big driving force. Recent
   research suggests that for every dollar invested in oil-palm
   plantations, $20 is recouped in a few years, even without the one-off
   gain from selling timber. Even if palm-oil prices slip downwards,
   forest-conservation plans would need to be very robust to compete.

   And it is still unclear who would get the money for reducing
   deforestation. A bad taste was left by the World Bank's failure to
   consult the UN Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues before launching a
   "carbon partnership facility" designed to keep forests intact--an
   error, the bank insists, that is now being rectified.

   The decisions taken at Bali call for a couple more years of trial and
   error before finding the best way to keep trees standing. But the
   chainsaws won't stand still.


   The growing danger of falling between the cracks of geopolitics and
   war 

   THEY are people who struggle to make their voice heard, but the world
   is likely to hear more and more about them. If they all belonged to
   one nation, it would be a fair size, as big as Chile or Kazakhstan.
   Yet by definition, they belong to no country at all: they are the
   world's growing band of stateless people who have no citizenship
   rights, and are often unable to claim the things that states can
   provide, like travel documents and education. According to
   international officials whose job is to cope with human flotsam and
   jetsam, the problem of statelessness is growing fast, despite a modest
   decline in the number of refugees in the strict sense.

   In a cautious estimate, the office of the United Nations High
   Commissioner for Refugees reported that in the course of 2006 the
   number of stateless persons had climbed from 2.4m to 5.8m. That was
   one reason for a recent spike (see chart) in the number of "people of
   concern" to the UNHCR. A better guess for the stateless, says Maureen
   Lynch of Refugees International, an aid agency, is at least 11m; some
   UNHCR officials say the total figure, using looser criteria, could be
   15m.

   Some people become stateless because they are forced out of one
   country, and no other nation will accept them, or even grant them the
   rights which "refugees"--people who seek shelter because of a proven
   risk of persecution--can claim. Some people never leave home but find
   they are stranded by a shift in borders. Also ranked among the
   stateless are marginal groups who cannot claim civic rights because
   their births went unrecorded.

   As a classic case of statelessness, take the Biharis of Bangladesh.
   They mostly took the West Pakistani side in the 1971 war that led to
   the creation of Bangladesh, ensuring that they were unwelcome in the
   new state. Some were moved in organised exchanges--until Pakistan
   stopped taking them. Perhaps 300,000 remain stateless.

   In fact, legal limbo is not an either-or condition; there are degrees
   of statelessness. Among the Palestinians (and their descendants) who
   fled during the war that followed Israel's creation, some--those in
   Jordan--were given passports, but in other Arab states, they simply
   got "refugee travel documents". No Arab state wanted to naturalise the
   newcomers, but their level of rights has varied from place to place.

   In 1991, in newly free Estonia, those inhabitants (mainly Russians)
   who were there as a result of the Soviet occupation could claim
   citizenship only if they passed a language test. Many have. The
   remainder are not wholly without rights; they may vote in municipal
   elections, for example. A "non-citizen" of law-abiding Estonia may
   enjoy more state protection than a subject of some ramshackle place
   where state power is either absent or murderous.

   Still, there are some strange, avoidable forms of statelessness that
   reflect quirks of history. When the Arab Gulf states were formed, some
   used tribal affiliation rather than borders to determine citizenship.
   This left many stateless, including the bidoun ("without" in Arabic)
   of Kuwait; perhaps 100,000 people who cannot prove their family's
   residence in Kuwait since 1920, and thus cannot become citizens under
   a harsh 1959 citizenship law. The situation is exacerbated by a
   feature common to all but three Arab states: mothers married to
   non-citizens cannot claim citizenship for their children. The bidoun
   forfeit the amenities that the oil-rich emirate showers on its
   citizens, including education.

   Antnio Guterres, the current high commissioner for refugees, says
   more and more countries agree, at least, that statelessness is a
   problem; and several have taken steps to alleviate it. One happy story
   is that of Nepal, where poverty and isolation had left some 3.4m
   people, some ethnically non-Nepali, outside the purview of the state.
   This year, the government managed to register 2.6m of them.

   Elsewhere, legal changes are easing the problem. Egypt, Morocco and
   Algeria have altered their family law to allow mothers to pass on
   their citizenship. Bangladesh's government has recommended giving
   citizenship to the Biharis. Even Kuwait is tackling the bidoun; there
   was a parliamentary enquiry into the issue in 2006 and a promise, this
   year, to begin widening citizenship, initially to a mere 2,000 people.

   But a 1961 convention on reducing statelessness has been signed by
   just 34 countries, most recently by New Zealand, Rwanda and Brazil.
   Many states are wary of losing sovereignty or undertaking expensive
   obligations. Welcome as they are, the recent efforts to tackle the
   problem fall far short of what is needed to put into practice the 1948
   Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which lays down that every
   human being is entitled to a nationality.


   An economist with an unusual past

   THIRTY years ago China's leaders used to call the World Bank a tool of
   imperialism. Now China is one of the bank's top borrowers, and in
   December it became a donor, on a small scale.

   China may soon make a big contribution to the bank's intellectual
   ranks. According to whispers at the institution, its new chief
   economist will be a Chinese citizen. Justin Yifu Lin is the director
   of the China Centre for Economic Research at Peking University. He has
   twice won his country's top economic honour, the Sun Yefang award, and
   he has published in the leading journal of his profession, the
   American Economic Review. But this brilliant record masks an unlikely
   past. He was born not in China but in Taiwan. He defected to the
   mainland after serving in the Taiwanese armed forces.

   After earning a master's degree in political economy from Peking
   University, at a time when it was still steeped in Marxism, he earned
   an economics doctorate from the University of Chicago, where the
   market reigns. So his intellectual portfolio is perfectly hedged. That
   will serve him well in his new post. His adopted land has become an
   inspiration to many poor countries, especially in Africa. Their
   policymakers argue that China's path to prosperity defies and
   discredits the simple formulas propagated in Washington.

   Mr Lin is a student of China's economic reforms. But his scholarship,
   like his past, straddles ideological gaps. He believes governments go
   wrong when they defy the law of comparative advantage, promoting heavy
   industries in countries where capital is scarce and labour abundant.
   The government's first duty, he argues, is "to remove all possible
   obstacles for the function of free, open and competitive markets".
   Spoken like a Chicago man.

   But Mr Lin also says government has a second duty. As an economy
   develops, the state should coax firms into more sophisticated
   industries. This prodding may be needed for several reasons. To cite
   one: firms may not know which industries are viable, and which are
   not. So the government should subsidise pioneers who break a path for
   others.

   Washington's financial institutions were once notorious for their
   dogmatic prescriptions. Now they prefer piecemeal reforms and eclectic
   advice. That is a tide Mr Lin can probably swim with.


   Judges and parliamentarians are restraining the zeal of governments
   who want a free hand to fight terror. The third in our series

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

                                    Guantnamo: where rights are shackled

   HAULED before a military tribunal at the American naval base in
   Guantnamo Bay, the detainee, picked up in Afghanistan, asked why he
   was being held. For associating with a member of al-Qaeda, he was
   told. Give me his name, the detainee demanded. The tribunal's
   president said he didn't know it. Nor did any of the tribunal's other
   members. "How can I respond to this?" the detainee cried before being
   taken back to his cell to continue his detention, perhaps for the rest
   of his life.

   This Kafkaesque story was related this summer by Arlen Specter, the
   ranking Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, in support of a
   bill he and Patrick Leahy, the committee's Democratic chairman, were
   co-sponsoring to restore habeas corpus rights to Guantnamo's
   detainees. Most have been held for nearly six years without charge,
   without access to a lawyer or any indication of when, if ever, they
   might be released. The Pentagon has said they could be held for the
   duration of the (open-ended) "global war on terror".

   Guantnamo has become a byword for the Bush administration's gung-ho
   reaction to the terror attacks of September 2001. In Britain, too, the
   government has sought new powers to tackle Islamist terrorism, even if
   these seemed to offend ancient liberties. But the story is not over
   yet. It could turn into a tale not of liberties being frayed, but of
   democracy's underlying strength. For, in both America and Britain, the
   doctrine of the balance of powers has passed a test. The executive
   branch made a grab for more authority; but courts and legislators have
   tried hard to push back.

   Freedom from arbitrary arrest and detention, coupled with the right to
   challenge it in an independent court--known as habeas corpus in
   common-law countries like Britain and America--are among the civilised
   world's most sacred and ancient liberties, going back to medieval
   times. But these days, there is more talk of pre-emption and
   "preventive detention", even in democracies. "You can't allow somebody
   to commit the crime before you detain them," said Condoleezza Rice,
   the secretary of state, when asked about America's secret "renditions"
   programme for suspected terrorists.

   What the public safety requires

   Under the American constitution, habeas corpus may not be suspended
   except when "in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may
   require it". And only very rarely has it been suspended. Abraham
   Lincoln did so during the civil war, but was rebuked by the courts.
   And the internment of 120,000 people of Japanese descent, two-thirds
   of them American citizens, in the second world war, was lawful but is
   now viewed as a shameful misdeed.

   Britain likewise suspended habeas corpus in the second world war to
   allow it to detain around 1,000 suspected fascists. All were released
   after three years. During the "troubles" in Northern Ireland in the
   early 1970s, nearly 2,000 suspected extremists were interned. But the
   practice was scrapped in 1975, as it was clearly fuelling support for
   terrorism--just as Guantnamo is doing now.

   George Bush chose the American naval base in Cuba as the detention
   centre for those picked up in his war on terror because officials
   believed--falsely as it turned out--Guantnamo was beyond the reach of
   domestic and international law. If the detainees had been held on
   American soil, they could have claimed the same rights as ordinary
   American citizens, including a right to due process, to apply for
   asylum and to sue the American government for any alleged wrongs.

   From the outset, the 775 or so men and boys (some as young as 13) sent
   by Mr Bush to Guantnamo were branded as guilty. Donald Rumsfeld, the
   former defence secretary, described them as "hard-core, well-trained
   terrorists" who, if released, would simply "return to the fight and
   continue to kill innocent men, women and children". The Pentagon says
   that all were "caught in the battlefield". But many were given to the
   Americans by Afghan bounty-seekers; others were seized as far away as
   Bosnia and Zambia.

   Mr Bush claims that, under international law, parties to an armed
   conflict may hold enemy combatants "for the duration of active
   hostilities". This is correct. Nor is "unlawful enemy combatant" a
   term he invented. In the Geneva Conventions, it describes a foe who is
   not a member of official armed forces or an organised resistance
   movement, does not carry arms openly, wears no uniform or other
   distinctive sign, and refuses to heed the laws of war. As such, he
   fails to qualify for the rights of a prisoner of war. But, contrary to
   what the administration first claimed, he is entitled to some
   protections, including humane treatment and, if charged, to a fair
   trial by a "regularly constituted court".

   But is America's war on terror a real war in the legal sense? If not,
   then the detainees should be treated as ordinary criminal suspects.
   This is the path that most European countries have chosen. Even if it
   could be deemed a real war, it is clearly unlike an ordinary state
   conflict: it has neither a definable end nor even an identifiable
   enemy with whom to sue for peace. It could last for decades.

   Meanwhile, dozens, perhaps hundreds, of detainees are apparently to be
   left to rot in their cages--if not in Guantnamo, which Mr Bush says
   he wants to close--then somewhere else. America has also engaged in
   so-called "extraordinary rendition"--the abduction of suspected
   terrorists to face not justice, but harsh interrogation, perhaps
   torture, in a third country. Up to 100 nameless "high-value" suspects
   are believed to have been seized by CIA agents and then transferred to
   secret jails, some never to resurface. Around 15 have recently been
   transferred to Guantnamo, where they may or may not face trial. But
   most of the 330-odd detainees remaining at the camp may never be
   charged or tried. The Pentagon says it hopes eventually to put up to
   80 detainees on trial for war crimes by special military commissions.
   Even if acquitted, they may still be held as enemy combatants for the
   rest of the "war".

   In Britain, all renditions have been outlawed since a Court of Appeal
   ruling in 1999 overturned the conviction of an Irish Republican, Peter
   Mullen, who had been spirited back to Britain from Zimbabwe. His
   abduction was described by the court as a "blatant and extremely
   serious failure to adhere to the rule of law".

   Britain has eroded liberties in other ways. Immediately after the
   September 11th attacks, the government brought in a law allowing it to
   hold indefinitely and without charge any foreigner deemed a national
   security risk--on the simple say-so of the home secretary. To do this,
   it had to opt out of parts of the European Convention on Human Rights,
   as is permitted "in time of war or other public emergency threatening
   the life of the nation". None of the 45 other signatories has deemed
   such a step necessary.

   Belmarsh prison in London, where most terror suspects were held, was
   dubbed "Britain's Guantnamo"--a bit unfairly. Britain never claimed
   to be in the midst of a war or to be holding "unlawful enemy
   combatants" with no legal rights. Its foreign detainees, totalling no
   more than 18, always had access to a lawyer and could challenge their
   detention before an independent tribunal, though they were not allowed
   to see classified evidence against them. The government said they were
   not being held indefinitely, just awaiting deportation. But as they
   could not be sent to their own countries (because they might be
   tortured), and no other state wanted them, the effect was the same.

   The law lords say no

   In December 2004 the House of Lords, Britain's highest court, judged
   this system to be incompatible with the European Convention. For Lord
   Scott, one of the law lords involved, indefinite detention on
   undisclosed grounds was "the stuff of nightmares", reminiscent of a
   Stalinist regime. The law was duly scrapped. But it was replaced by
   new powers allowing the home secretary (not a judge) to impose an
   indefinitely renewable "control order"--including electronic tagging,
   a ban on phone and internet use, and strict curfews amounting at times
   to virtual house arrest--on any suspected terrorist, British or
   foreign.

   The new system seems as riddled with problems as the old, and almost
   as unfair. In its latest report on control orders, in September, the
   Home Office said three of the 14 people subject to the regime had
   absconded. Several people have had their orders quashed by judges who
   again found the measures incompatible with the European Convention.
   The government has appealed to the House of Lords, which is expected
   to pronounce later this month.

   In the final months of Tony Blair's government, ministers said they
   were prepared to "take the nuclear option" and opt out of the
   convention again if the law lords' ruling went against them. That
   threat has not been repeated by the new prime minister, Gordon Brown.
   But he may yet try similar moves. He has already announced plans for a
   new anti-terrorist law--Britain's fifth since 2000. Among his
   proposals is an extension of the maximum time a suspected terrorist
   can be held without charge from 28 days, already the longest in the
   West, to 56 days. Most democracies allow no more than three days.
   France permits four; Greece six.

   But no leader of a Western democracy has obtained a completely free
   hand in detaining people. America has seen a tug of war between the
   government and the courts, with many rounds. In June 2004, the Supreme
   Court ruled that habeas corpus remained available to everyone detained
   on American soil, unless explicitly suspended. The case involved Yaser
   Esam Hamdi, an American citizen being held as an unlawful enemy
   combatant on a naval brig in Virginia. Two years later, in a case
   involving a Guantnamo detainee, Salim Hamdan, the Supreme Court said
   the basic protections afforded to all wartime detainees under the
   Geneva Conventions applied to everyone, even to unlawful enemy
   combatants outside America.

   The court also ruled that Mr Bush had exceeded his authority in
   setting up, without congressional approval, special military
   commissions to try some of the Guantnamo detainees. In response, the
   president pushed through the 2006 Military Commissions Act giving him
   just such authority. That law also stripped Guantnamo detainees of
   any vestige of habeas corpus rights, with retroactive effect. This
   seemed to dash the hopes of hundreds of Guantnamo detainees with
   challenges pending before American civilian courts. In April, that
   view appeared to be confirmed when the Supreme Court turned down,
   without comment, a habeas corpus petition from the above-mentioned Mr
   Hamdan. But in June it relented, agreeing to hear an almost identical
   case from another Guantnamo detainee. Many hope the Supreme Court
   will seize this opportunity to give a view on whether Mr Bush's "war
   on terror" is a real war.

   The legislators strike back

   Congress, too, is beginning to show its teeth, particularly now it is
   under Democratic control. Although Senator Specter's bipartisan bill
   to restore habeas corpus rights to Guantnamo detainees fell to a
   Republican filibuster on September 19th, it got the support of 56
   senators, including four Republicans. Other bills pending before
   Congress seek the total closure of Guantnamo with the transfer of the
   detainees either to their home countries, if they do not present too
   big a threat and if those countries are willing to take them; or to a
   military prison in America.

   In Britain, too, Parliament has baulked at some of the government's
   demands. In 2005, when Mr Blair sought to push through a bill raising
   the time a suspected terrorist could be detained from 14 to 90 days,
   his backbenchers revolted, eventually settling on the compromise of 28
   days, with regular judicial oversight. Some British officials have
   been looking with envy at civil-law countries like France, where the
   criminal-justice system allows detention for months, even years, after
   a suspect has been formally "placed under investigation", but not yet
   charged. Police can also continue to interrogate suspects during that
   time.

   But most legal commentators believe that if the French model were
   copied in this area, an unbearable blow would be dealt to England's
   common-law system. And despite the fears of civil libertarians, there
   are still judges and legislators who think that system worth
   preserving.


   In a propaganda coup for "re-educators" across the Muslim world, a
   jailed ideologue of violence changes his mind

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                              Zawahiri: unfazed by faxes 

   WHEN an eloquent advocate of terrorist violence deploys his rhetorical
   powers and scriptural knowledge in the opposite cause, that is a
   triumph for the authorities--even if the "repentant" extremist is in
   prison, and has presumably been under strong pressure, to put it
   mildly, to alter his thinking.

   That has just happened in Egypt--a country whose theological debates,
   whether in jails, Friday sermons or over the internet, matter a lot,
   and can reverberate across the Muslim world. One of the main
   ideologues of the Islamic Jihad movement--Sayed al-Shareef, better
   known as Doctor Fadl--has produced an elaborate recantation of his
   extremist views. His revised opinions have been serialised in several
   newspapers.

   For Egyptians, this is a new twist in a semi-public argument that has
   been going on since the massacre of 58 tourists in Luxor in 1997. That
   atrocity prompted a wave of questioning within jihadist ranks. Over
   the next few years, imprisoned leaders of the Jamaa Islamiya, the
   Egyptian group to which the Luxor killers claimed allegiance,
   published a series of works condemning this act, deploring the group's
   previous use of violence, and redefining jihad in more peaceful terms.

   Those recantations are often cited as a reason for a fall-off in
   Islamist terrorism inside Egypt. But leaders of Islamic Jihad--the
   other ultra-militant group in Egypt--rejected the new moderate line.
   Its overseas branch, led by Ayman al-Zawahiri, forged an alliance with
   Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda. Global jihadism still thrived, and it
   returned to Egypt with attacks on beach resorts in Sinai in 2004 and
   2005.

   So the latest reversal by a prominent member of Islamic Jihad is a
   dramatic event--even if it prompted Mr Zawahiri to ask caustically
   whether Egyptian jail cells now had fax machines, and whether they ran
   on the same electricity source as the instruments of torture.

   Mr al-Shareef's credentials as an ideologue are "second to none," says
   Stephen Ulph, a terrorism-watcher at the Jamestown Foundation, a
   think-tank. In recent years, Mr al-Shareef had defended the legitimacy
   of violence against regimes that purported to be Muslim but were not
   zealous enough to deserve the name. Now he has reversed that stance,
   warning against branding fellow-Muslims as infidels.

   As a theological statement, the new line from Mr al-Shareef dovetails
   with the positions developed by establishment scholars in several
   other Arab states where deradicalisation programmes are in progress.
   Some governments claim these have been very successful. Saudi Arabia
   says that out of perhaps 3,000 terrorist suspects and sympathisers
   arrested since 2003, some two-thirds have agreed to re-education
   programmes. Of these, 700 have renounced former beliefs and been
   released. Beyond religious reindoctrination, the Saudi effort also
   includes psychological counselling and, perhaps crucially, direct
   financial and social support to help woo radicals back to "civilian"
   life.

   Yemen claims to have rehabilitated hundreds of former radicals, and
   points to the diminution of terrorist attacks as one result. Egypt has
   reduced its prison population of jihadist suspects from an estimated
   20,000 in the late 1990s to below 5,000 today.

   Yet some people doubt the effectiveness of either re-education or
   high-profile penitence in reducing the jihadist urge. One important
   question is whether jihadist violence is primarily a product of
   religious ideology, or of geopolitical grievance. The feeling that
   Islam is "under threat" in many parts of the world is arguably a
   politically motivated cry of victimhood rather than a statement about
   the meaning of sacred texts.

   Even the al-Shareef recantation, like those of the Jamaa Islamiya,
   seems to accept the legitimacy in principle of violent jihad in
   defence of the faith. Once you accept that proposition, it can rapidly
   lead to a hard argument--more political than theological--over who is
   on the attack, and who is on the defensive, in the relationship
   between Islam and the rest of the world.


   Protesters and governments are mastering the tricks of the mobile
   trade 

   BACK in September, protesters from many parts of the United States
   poured into the small town of Jena, Louisiana, to express their anger
   over the over-zealous prosecution (as they saw it) of six young
   African-Americans on charges of assault. Mobile-phone text messages
   played an important role in pulling in the crowd.

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

                   Summoned by cells: the Louisiana march

   But for pioneers of mobile telephony and texts as tools of protest and
   dissent, simply summoning people to demonstrations--a technique first
   deployed in the Philippines as long ago as 2001--is old hat. The
   search is on for ever more creative ways to use this ubiquitous
   device.

   At a recent conference in So Paulo on "mobile activism"--a term that
   embraces humanitarian work as well as protest--there was much talk
   about how to "go beyond text" when using mobile phones. And it became
   clear that exuberant practice was galloping ahead of theory. One
   recent craze has been the use of political ringtones. Once again,
   Filipinos are in the vanguard. Since 2005 that country's best-known
   tone, especially among youngsters exasperated by corruption, has been
   "Hello Garci"--a snatch of taped conversation in which President
   Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo seems to be chatting with Virgilio Garcillano,
   her election organiser, ahead of the 2004 poll that confirmed her in
   office. In Hispanic countries, meanwhile, the latest fashion is a
   royal voice saying "Why don't you shut up?"--the recent outburst of
   Spain's King Juan Carlos to President Hugo Chvez of Venezuela at a
   summit in Santiago, Chile.

   Mobiles are also being used in more sophisticated ways, to capture and
   disseminate images that were never supposed to see the light of day.
   Witness, a non-governmental organisation that aims to record and
   denounce human-rights abuses, is one pioneer. Instead of merely
   posting verbal reports, it invites visitors to its [3]website to the
   "Hub"--a collection of harrowing video clips, often uploaded from
   mobiles, which depict cruelty in action. On the "Egypt" country page,
   there are grainy images showing torture in a prison.

   For now at least, expense and technological problems make it hard to
   organise any international mobile-based protest. The lack of full
   interoperability between mobile systems means that borders are still
   difficult to cross. But efforts are under way to get round that
   problem. For example, FrontlineSMS, a laptop-based (and thus portable)
   technology has been designed for use almost anywhere. Early this year
   it was deployed in the monitoring of elections in Nigeria. Voters
   texted complaints to a computer where they could be processed and
   cross-checked by monitors from international bodies such as the
   European Union.

   More recently FrontlineSMS was used in Pakistan to get round curbs on
   information flowing in and out of the country. Both there and in
   Myanmar (Burma) recent disturbances have produced some interesting
   insights into the cat-and-mouse games of protesters and political
   masters.

   In Pakistan the equipment used by local authorities was too cheap to
   block the flow of text messages. This helped Pakistani protesters to
   stay informed about sympathetic rallies taking place in America and
   Britain--and to give the outside world a glimpse of ordinary people's
   reactions to the state of emergency.

   During the recent protests in Myanmar, the authorities temporarily
   suspended text messaging altogether. That did not stop activists from
   using expensive satellite phones, which are harder to shut down. The
   political, and above all, economic cost of blocking text messages was
   relatively low in Myanmar, because not many people use mobiles. But in
   many other developing countries, shutting mobile systems would be
   economically disastrous and politically costly, because so many small
   businesses depend on them.

   In some places, like Belarus, the authorities have refined the art of
   blocking mobile coverage in specific places--such as protest venues.
   They have also turned text messages to their own uses: by using the
   state-owned network to spread warnings that a rally is likely to end
   in bloodshed.

   For hard-pressed activists in search of new techniques, help may come
   from an unlikely quarter. Google, the internet giant, has offered $10m
   for the most innovative new application for mobile phones. The offer
   extends to ideas that bring humanitarian benefits or contribute to
   economic development. Mobile activists have never lacked imagination,
   and many of them are already hard at work, thinking of clever new uses
   for those little devices--mostly rather crude, five-year-old
   models--that have become part of daily life in the poorest parts of
   the world.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   A green jamboree in Indonesia will not achieve anything tangible, but
   it matters

   IF SIZE is a measure of importance, the meeting of the United Nations
   Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) that starts in Bali on
   December 3rd is a big deal. Somewhere between 15,000 and 20,000
   politicians, officials, activists and journalists are expected to
   attend, stretching the Indonesian island's resources to
   breaking-point. "It's a nightmare for those of us who are actually
   working on the agenda," says an official who is attending. "We won't
   be able to get internet access or food." The recent floods in parts of
   Indonesia (shown above) may help concentrate minds.

   The numbers of people pouring into Bali next week do at least
   demonstrate that the political profile of climate change has risen
   over the past year. Nobody whose job touches on global warming can
   afford to be absent. And the issue that the meeting is primarily
   about--how the world should try to mitigate climate change when the
   Kyoto protocol runs out in 2012--is crucial.

   The omens, too, are good. Those who support a global agreement along
   the lines of Kyoto, based on targets for cutting greenhouse-gas
   emissions, got a boost from the results of the Australian elections.
   Kevin Rudd, the country's new prime minister, has promised to reverse
   his predecessor's policy and ratify Kyoto.

   But expectations for Bali are low, and are being managed downwards
   before the meeting. "Disappointment may come in a variety of different
   guises," says an official. Those, like the EU and the NGOs, who want a
   global deal are not even looking for a road map for the post-2012 era.
   They will be happy if they manage to stop America, OPEC or the
   developing countries creating serious roadblocks.

   It is not surprising that Bali is unlikely to achieve anything
   tangible, for it is aimed at the hardest part of climate-change
   mitigation--getting an international agreement which all the big
   emitters ratify. That won't happen until America adopts serious
   domestic emissions-control measures.

   But encouragement from the international front would ease the passage
   of such measures considerably. So what happens at Bali matters, though
   the declaration that comes out of it will be encrypted in diplomatic
   language, and the difference between success and failure will be
   imperceptible to the untrained eye.

   Experienced code-breakers will be looking, essentially, for three
   things by which to judge whether Bali has been a success or a failure.
   The first is some sort of long-term commitment by all 192 signatories
   of the UNFCCC to deal with the problem, involving some sort of goal,
   such as temperature, emissions cuts or atmospheric carbon
   concentrations. The second is further commitments by developing
   countries to cut their emissions. The EU already committed itself to
   cuts of 20% below 1990 levels by 2020 at its spring conference earlier
   this year; and since the current American administration continues to
   oppose binding targets, such promises will have to come from other
   rich countries, such as Australia or Japan.

   The third area concerns developing countries. They are not going to
   commit themselves to cuts. But activists hope that China and
   India--the nations everybody is watching--may throw America a bone. If
   the big developing countries agree to look into cutting emissions from
   particular sectors--an idea that the Bush administration has
   pushed--rather than from their economies as a whole, America will be
   likelier to commit itself to emissions controls. After all, it was the
   developing world's refusal to countenance cuts that led America to
   turn its back on Kyoto in the first place.

   This is all familiar territory to climate-change aficionados. But
   there is one area in which the Bali meeting may break new ground:
   deforestation.

   The Kyoto protocol established a mechanism (see [3]article) under
   which developing countries that cut their industrial emissions can
   sell those reductions to rich countries. But developing countries have
   no incentive to stop cutting down their forests, and tropical
   deforestation accounts for around 20% of total annual greenhouse-gas
   emissions. So a group of heavily-forested countries have been lobbying
   to get paid for not cutting down their green canopies.

   This initiative has met plenty of opposition, and not just from the
   many who point out that designing a scheme to pay people not to do
   something is tricky. Brazil, home of the world's largest expanse of
   tropical forest, has also been wary of the idea. It was instrumental
   in designing the Clean Development Mechanism, which it is doing very
   nicely out of, and it fears that flooding the market for carbon
   credits with new supply from tropical forests would depress the price
   and destroy the mechanism. It is also uncomfortable about the
   implication in an "avoided deforestation" programme that its forests
   are the whole world's property.

   But as Brazil has come to take the issues of both climate change and
   deforestation more seriously, so its opposition to such a programme
   has moderated. That, and the world's realisation that without
   addressing deforestation, mitigating climate change will be
   exceedingly difficult, has brought forests to the fore.

   Even on deforestation, though, there will not be a concrete agreement.
   The best that can be expected is--to use UN parlance--a commitment to
   look into creating incentives to discourage countries from chopping
   down their tropical forests. International diplomacy is a horribly
   slow business; and some such statement is probably a necessary first
   step towards, eventually, packing away the chainsaws.


   A good graphic can tell a story, bring a lump to the throat, even
   change policies. Here are three of history's best

   IT WAS at a dinner party in 1856 that Florence Nightingale met William
   Farr. The Lady of the Lamp was already famous for nursing British
   soldiers wounded in the Crimea; Farr, the Compiler of Abstracts in the
   General Registry Office, was widely recognised as an innovative
   statistician. Both cared deeply about improving the world through
   sanitation; both understood the importance of meticulous records in
   providing the evidence needed to bring about change.

                                                             Graphic News

                                Graphic News

   Farr was the first to compile "mortality tables", listing causes of
   death in the general population; Nightingale compared his numbers with
   her own on the deaths of soldiers to great effect. By showing that
   even in peacetime a soldier faced twice the risk of dying in a given
   year as a civilian, she campaigned successfully for better conditions
   in barracks. The pair were instrumental in setting up a royal
   commission of inquiry into sanitary conditions during the Crimean war.

   Although remembered as the mother of modern nursing, Nightingale was
   an accomplished statistician too. She was particularly innovative in
   presenting data visually. The example above, of a type now known as
   "Nightingale's Rose" or "Nightingale's Coxcomb", comes from her
   monograph, "Notes on matters affecting the health, efficiency and
   hospital administration of the British army" published in 1858. In the
   same year she became the first female fellow of the Statistical
   Society of London (now Royal Statistical Society).

   The chart displays the causes of the deaths of soldiers during the
   Crimean war, divided into three categories: "Preventible or Mitigable
   Zymotic Diseases" (infectious diseases, including cholera and
   dysentery, coloured in blue), "wounds" (red) and "all other causes"
   (black). As with today's pie charts, the area of each wedge is
   proportional to the figure it stands for, but it is the radius of each
   slice (the distance from the common centre to the outer edge) rather
   than the angle that is altered to achieve this. Her principal
   message--that even during periods of heavy fighting, such as November
   1854, far more soldiers died from infection than from wounds--can be
   seen at a glance. She sent the chart to the War Office; and it is a
   fair assumption that it contributed to the improvements in military
   hospitals that she brought about.

   Nightingale's chart is a beautiful and persuasive call to action, but
   it is not perfect. The red, black and blue wedges are all measured
   from the centre, so some areas mask parts of others. The numbers of
   deaths from the various causes are not stated--although, to be fair,
   it was their relative size that Nightingale wished to show.

                                                             Graphic News

                                Graphic News

   The chart to the left also tells the story of a war: Napoleon's
   Russian campaign of 1812. It was drawn half a century afterwards by
   Charles Joseph Minard, a French civil engineer who worked on dams,
   canals and bridges. He was 80 years old and long retired when, in
   1861, he called on the innovative techniques he had invented for the
   purpose of displaying flows of people, in order to tell the tragic
   tale in a single image. Edward Tufte, whose book, "The Visual Display
   of Quantitative Information" is a bible to statisticians, calls it
   "the best statistical graphic ever drawn".

   Minard's chart shows six types of information: geography, time,
   temperature, the course and direction of the army's movement, and the
   number of troops remaining. The widths of the gold (outward) and black
   (returning) paths represent the size of the force, one millimetre to
   10,000 men. Geographical features and major battles are marked and
   named, and plummeting temperatures on the return journey are shown
   along the bottom.

   The chart tells the dreadful story with painful clarity: in 1812, the
   Grand Army set out from Poland with a force of 422,000; only 100,000
   reached Moscow; and only 10,000 returned. The detail and
   understatement with which such horrifying loss is represented combine
   to bring a lump to the throat. As men tried, and mostly failed, to
   cross the Brzina river under heavy attack, the width of the black
   line halves: another 20,000 or so gone. The French now use the
   expression "C'est la Brzina" to describe a total disaster.

   In 1871, the year after Minard died, his obituarist cited particularly
   his graphical innovations: "For the dry and complicated columns of
   statistical data, of which the analysis and the discussion always
   require a great sustained mental effort, he had substituted images
   mathematically proportioned, that the first glance takes in and knows
   without fatigue, and which manifest immediately the natural
   consequences or the comparisons unforeseen." The chart shown here is
   singled out for special mention: it "inspires bitter reflections on
   the cost to humanity of the madnesses of conquerors and the merciless
   thirst of military glory".

                                                             Graphic News

                                Graphic News

   The chart to the left is the earliest of our three. It was published
   in 1821 by William Playfair, a Scottish engineer, political economist
   and scoundrel: he was convicted of libel in England and swindling in
   France. Alongside these many and varied skills he was also an engraver
   (he produced some of James Watt's engineering drawings), which
   explains this image's handsomeness, with its delicate shading and
   ornate attribution.

   Playfair liked controversial topics. He drew a chart comparing tax
   levels in various countries in order to show that Britain's was too
   high. He was the first to show imports and exports on one chart,
   shading the area between the two to indicate the balance of trade and
   explaining that the intersection of the lines showed a shift in favour
   of one country or the other.

   This chart, his most famous, shows the "weekly wages of a good
   mechanic" and the "price of a quarter of wheat", with the reigns of
   monarchs displayed along the top. It is a little difficult to see the
   point Playfair wished to make: "that never at any former period was
   wheat so cheap, in proportion to mechanical labour as it is at the
   present time". Presumably he was not familiar with the idea of
   combining two variables--prices and wages--to make a
   third--affordability. Still, he should not be overly criticised for
   this. For a start, his conclusion was correct. Statisticians have used
   his data to plot wages divided by prices (showing how much wheat a
   week's wages would buy) against time, and the point becomes clear--as,
   incidentally, does a more subtle one: the increase in buying power was
   slowing down.

   And Playfair was already making a leap of abstraction that few of his
   contemporaries could follow. Using the horizontal and vertical axes to
   represent time and money was such a novelty that he had to explain it
   painstakingly in accompanying text. "This method has struck several
   persons as being fallacious", he wrote, "because geometrical
   measurement has not any relation to money or to time; yet here it is
   made to represent both."

   He was the first in a series of economists, statisticians and social
   reformers who wanted to use data not only to inform but also to
   persuade and even campaign--and who understood that when the eye
   comprehends, the heart often follows. Nightingale hoped her charts
   would liven up her publications; the queen, she thought, might look at
   the pictures, even if she did not read the words.

   Not everyone thought it was right to include such fripperies in a
   sober publication. "We do not want impressions, we want facts," Farr
   wrote to her in 1861. "You complain that your report would be dry. The
   dryer the better. Statistics should be the dryest of all reading."
   Fortunately, she ignored him.


   A report on how not to solve disputes

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

                 Clarkson: learning to avoid disintegration


   DID you ever hear about an Indian economist, a Ghanaian-American
   philosopher, a Chinese-Canadian stateswoman and a Northern Irish
   politician who tried to work out why so many groups of people were
   fighting each other and what could be done about it?

   Along with seven other public figures, the above
   luminaries--respectively Amartya Sen, Kwame Anthony Appiah, Adrienne
   Clarkson and (Lord) John Alderdice--have spent two years preparing a
   report[4]*; their formal remit was to consider "respect and
   understanding" as a way to stem conflict. The recipient of their
   collective wisdom will be the (formerly British) Commonwealth, whose
   heads of government, representing about 1.8 billion people, gather in
   Uganda later this month.

   At first glance, the fruits of this huge array of brain power look
   rather modest: a slim volume which, when opened randomly, seems packed
   with familiar political correctness and concessions to the idea of
   victimhood. People feel aggrieved because they are poor, powerless or
   else they belong to groups (ethnic, religious, economic) which are not
   sufficiently respected, and one grievance feeds another.

   But brevity is no sin--far from it--and amidst all this fluffy stuff
   are to be found some nuggets of very tough-minded thinking about the
   dangers of putting people into neat boxes--and the cynical way in
   which ethnic or tribal warlords or nationalist and religious zealots
   always try to shoehorn people into simple, unchanging categories
   because it suits their purposes and keeps conflict on the boil.

   Perhaps that much is obvious to anyone who has observed a peaceful
   society slide into conflict, or simply struggle to avoid
   disintegration on linguistic lines, as Canada has done. What is less
   obvious is that people who are trying to put an end to conflict--be
   they soldiers or nice peace-brokers--often fall into the same trap as
   the belligerents, by assuming that people naturally divide into simple
   categories.

   Instead of addressing, say, Protestants and Catholics and urging each
   "side" to think better of the other, it may be wiser to remind them
   that they have lots of other identities too: as parents, sports
   enthusiasts, believers in a political or economic ideology, music fans
   or whatever.

   As Mr Appiah, a novelist and New Yorker who descends from famous
   British and Ghanaian politicians, puts it: "When a cab driver asks
   where I am from, what he really wants to know is why I am
   brown-skinned, so I tell him I grew up in Ghana....But when I go to a
   philosophy conference, what matters is which school of philosophers I
   belong to."

   From these personal musings, Mr Appiah derives some quite stern
   conclusions about the way Western societies have responded to
   terrorists acting in the name of Islam. After the terrorist bombs in
   London of July 2005, he thinks, Tony Blair shouldn't have appealed for
   moderation among "British Muslims"; he should have addressed British
   citizens as a whole.

   Mr Sen, who was born in West Bengal in 1933, says he has been
   depressed by the way "Bangladeshi Muslim" identity has superseded all
   others--in contrast with 30 years ago when (in the early days of
   Bangladeshi independence) people of all religious backgrounds felt a
   Bengali solidarity that cut across religious affiliation.

   The existence of lots of competing affiliations which pull people in
   different ways is the best hope of silencing gloomy talk of a "clash
   of civilisations" (with religion, and Islam in particular, often seen
   as the defining characteristic for giant global blocks). Such thinking
   is "deeply flawed on a conceptual level and deeply divisive in
   practice," the report says.

   As everybody knows deep down, the authors suggest, people belong to
   lots of categories (family, language, personal interests, political
   ideology) and spend their time shifting between them--unless some
   conflict arises in which a detail of family history becomes a matter
   of life and death.

   At a minimum, say these authors, the authorities who are trying to
   keep inter-communal peace should not empower people whose authority
   depends on keeping divisions sharp. "It could be argued that, in
   Britain and America, attempts at engaging against terrorism...have
   had, at times, a perverse effect of magnifying the voice of extreme
   Islamists...faith-based approaches make it more difficult for
   politically secular Muslims to speak out against terrorism and
   violence," the report argues. If anybody reads it carefully, it will
   stir some interesting arguments when those Commonwealth leaders
   gather.
   [gray.gif]

   *[5]Civil Paths to Peace: Report of the Commonwealth Commission on
   Respect and Understanding


                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   First admitted to the Group of Eight as a gesture of goodwill and
   support for reform, Russia is concentrating its partners' minds--with
   offers and threats

   WHEN he met Vladimir Putin in 2001, George Bush said he had looked the
   Russian president in the eye and got a "sense of his soul" as a
   trustworthy man. Six years later, as the two leaders meet at the G8
   summit in Germany, Westerners studying Mr Putin's inner self will more
   likely see a tough strategic adversary.

   As Russia heads towards a new form of authoritarianism, Mr Putin's
   anti-Western rhetoric has grown ever more harsh and reminiscent of the
   cold war. This year has seen a crescendo of attacks. It started with
   Mr Putin's accusation in February that America's "unconstrained
   hyper-use of force" threatened the world; intensified in May with an
   implied comparison of America with Nazi Germany; and climaxed this
   month with a threat to re-target Russia's nuclear missiles on Europe.

   If you believe him, Mr Putin's rage reflects his fear that the nuclear
   balance is being upset by Mr Bush's plan to put a limited missile
   defence system on Czech and Polish soil. "It is clear that if part of
   the US nuclear capability turns up in Europe...then we are forced to
   take corresponding steps in response," Mr Putin told a group of
   foreign journalists ahead of the summit. "What will those steps be?
   Naturally, we will have to have new targets in Europe."

   So the era of nuclear mutual assured destruction (or MAD, the cold-war
   stability derived from the knowledge that if one side fired its
   rockets, the other could launch a devastating counter-attack), which
   supposedly ended when the red flag came down, could return. A Kremlin
   spokesman called his leader's comments a "hypothetical answer to a
   hypothetical question". But they were no slip of the tongue; similar
   remarks had been made earlier by a Russian general. Mr Putin, it
   seems, wants to make Western states see the depth of his anger.

   America says the missile defence system is not aimed at Russia; it is
   designed to ward off Iranian missiles that may, one day, carry nuclear
   weapons. But for Mr Putin, the anti-missile shield is just a bid to
   revive the old Star Wars programme against the Kremlin--if not now,
   then in the future. Mr Putin has never liked America's missile
   defence, but seemed to acquiesce when Mr Bush quit the Anti-Ballistic
   Missile (ABM) treaty in 2002. America and Russia at the time made an
   agreement to reduce nuclear warheads to 1,700-2,200 each.

   Several things have happened since those friendlier days. America has
   been weakened by the war in Iraq. Russia has grown richer on oil, and
   Mr Putin angrier over the expansion of NATO to his borders and
   especially the pro-Western "orange revolution" in Ukraine in 2004.

   America's decision to build even limited missile-defence facilities in
   two ex-Warsaw Pact countries was, to him, an intolerable provocation,
   feeding a sense of encirclement. A week ago, Russia test-fired what it
   said was a new intercontinental ballistic missile with multiple
   warheads, able to counteract any missile shield. Mr Putin blamed
   America for starting a new arms race. Recently he has rattled other
   pillars of the post-cold-war order. In February a Russian general said
   his country could quit the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF)
   treaty; in April Mr Putin threatened to freeze participation in the
   pact on Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE).

   The Kremlin has given mixed signals about how far it will seek to
   nullify these accords, and how much these moves have been caused by
   the missile-defence row. Mr Putin has opposed the missile defences
   being proposed for Europe by saying Iran's rockets are no imminent
   threat to NATO. But on June 7th he surprised the Americans by
   proposing Azerbaijan as an alternative site--where the United States
   and Russia could jointly erect a missile shield, serving both European
   and Russian needs.

   Russia has acted up in one forum after another--NATO, the European
   Union and the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe--so
   far with little result. It has called an emergency meeting of parties
   to the CFE treaty in Vienna next week. Mr Putin berates NATO for not
   ratifying an amended (1999) text of the CFE pact. (NATO cites Russia's
   failure to keep its pledge to withdraw forces from Georgia and
   Moldova; Russian troops remain in both countries, as "peacekeepers"
   which in reality prop up pro-Kremlin statelets.)

   Western replies to Mr Putin's outbursts have so far been muted. Mr
   Bush insists the missile-defence plan is open to Russian
   participation. "Russia is not an enemy," he said this week, playing
   down Mr Putin's nuclear threats. He has sent a succession of senior
   officials to Moscow to mollify Russia, with little success. He has
   also issued an unprecedented invitation to his "friend" Vladimir to
   meet him at his parents' home in Maine on July 1st.

   Some Americans feel the worsening mood reflects Western mistakes too.
   "When Russia tried to co-operate, it got ignored, and now when it
   behaves badly it gets attention," argues Toby Gati, an ex-White House
   adviser. Mr Putin may be genuinely aggrieved that America has taken
   his past co-operation for granted--for instance in the war against
   terror. He may also reckon that by hitting the West hard on missile
   defence, he may exacerbate divisions in the Western camp.

   The tone of Mr Putin's latest comments also reflects a mood of
   mounting tension after the request by Britain's Crown Prosecution
   Service for the extradition of a former KGB officer, Andrei Lugovoi.
   Britain wants to try him for the murder by radioactive poisoning of an
   exiled ex-secret policeman, Alexander Litvinenko, in London. Mr Putin
   seemed more irked by what he called the "foolish" extradition bid than
   by the substance of the case. He says it is constitutionally all but
   impossible for him to accept the request--and apparently feels pushed
   into a corner. To extradite Mr Lugovoi or try him at home would be
   kowtowing to the West (and betraying a KGB ex-colleague); by doing
   nothing, he may seem to be protecting a murder suspect.

   The Russian leader may feel he has little to lose by antagonising the
   West. But the main effects of his cutting loose from global
   obligations may be felt not so much by the West as by opponents at
   home. Mr Putin recently made an obscure quip, saying that, apart from
   himself, there have been no "pure democrats" in the world since
   Mahatma Gandhi. Garry Kasparov, a chess champion turned opposition
   figure, begs to differ: he calls his country a "police state
   masquerading as a democracy".


   In the last of our series on civil liberties, we look at the
   difficulty of reconciling traditional freedoms of expression with the
   new demands of national security

   IN COUNTRIES at war, freedoms of the press and of speech are often
   restricted. For that reason, al-Qaeda's attacks of September 11th
   2001, by precipitating a "war on terror", also raised questions--both
   legal and moral--about the role of the media in free societies.

   Several Western governments have used national security as a
   justification for limiting certain sorts of public information and
   public speech. The press itself has been torn: sometimes it has
   refused to accept limits on its freedom of expression (as when
   newspapers worldwide published cartoons of the prophet Muhammad that
   were offensive to Muslims); sometimes it has accepted them (as when
   those newspapers apologised). Meanwhile, the media have managed to
   continue their normal work, uncovering abuses at the Guantnamo and
   Abu Ghraib prisons, for example. So what has happened to freedom of
   expression under the war on terror?

   If you take at face value the lip service that almost all countries
   pay to a free press--160 of the United Nation's 192 members have
   ratified the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
   (ICCPR)--then freedom of expression has had a tough time. In Pakistan
   this summer, lawyers and pro-democracy activists took to the streets
   to demand the reinstatement of the country's chief justice after his
   removal by General Pervez Musharraf. They succeeded. But more than 30
   journalists covering later demonstrations against the general's
   pursuit of another term as president were injured when the police used
   violence against the protestors. China, whose constitution states that
   its citizens "enjoy freedom of speech...[and] of the press", has
   announced a new crackdown on "false news". And this week marks the
   first anniversary of the murder in Moscow of Anna Politkovskaya,
   Russia's best-known investigative writer: she is one of 18 journalists
   to be killed in the country since President Vladimir Putin came to
   power in 2000.

   Shooting the messengers

   Reporters Without Borders, a lobbying organisation based in Paris,
   says that 113 journalists and other media workers were killed in 2006
   (half of them in Iraq). Another 86 have been killed and 134 imprisoned
   so far this year, along with 64 "cyberdissidents". The International
   Federation of Journalists, based in Brussels, puts the death toll
   higher, reporting "at least" 155 media workers killed last year.
   Whatever the real numbers, 2006 seems to have been the worst for many
   years, if not ever. In December 2006 the UN for the first time issued
   a statement condemning the targeting of journalists and calling for
   the prosecution of their killers.

   The rising numbers of dead and jailed does not on its own mean that
   press freedom is everywhere in decline. Many of the reporters killed
   in Iraq--more than 200 since the invasion of 2003--have been Iraqis
   working for the foreign media, murdered not so much because they were
   members of the press as because they were regarded by Iraqi insurgents
   as "spies". To some degree, the global increase in the number of
   journalists being killed, kidnapped and otherwise harassed may signify
   that more journalists are at work, and are growing bolder.

   Nonetheless, Freedom House, a conservative American think-tank,
   reckons that press freedom suffered "continued global decline" in
   2006. It reported particularly troubling trends in Asia, the former
   Soviet Union and Latin America. Attacks on the media, Freedom House
   points out, are not only bad in themselves; they are also a sign of
   worse to come, since they are almost invariably followed by assaults
   on other democratic institutions.

   In repressive countries, the arrival of the internet has often been
   greeted by citizens as a wonderful way to bypass government control,
   enabling dissidents to air their views and keep in contact with the
   outside world. For a while, this new medium did seem relatively immune
   to regulation. The rest of the world found out about the first few
   weeks of the Burmese uprising partly through internet cafs in Yangon,
   which had worked out how to disable the military junta's
   internet-blocking software. But the army soon cracked down on the
   Burmese bloggers, just as they cracked down on everything else.

   In a study of the internet in 40 countries (excluding Europe and the
   United States), OpenNet Initiative, an academic think-tank, says that
   censorship of the internet has spread from just a handful of countries
   five years ago to 26 nations. Some--notably China, Iran, Syria,
   Pakistan, Tunisia, Vietnam and Uzbekistan--are now blocking entire
   internet services such as YouTube, Skype and Google Maps.

   Of course, it is not surprising that such countries are suppressing
   freedom of expression. They need little enough excuse to do it, and
   the only connection between their censorship and the war on terror is
   that their Western friends might be more inclined than usual to
   forbear from criticism in case they offend an ally in the war. But
   none of that applies to America.

   Thanks to its constitution, and especially the first amendment, the
   United States gives greater protection to freedom of expression than
   any other country. Free expression generally trumps libel, prejudicial
   comment about pending court cases, and so-called "hate speech". Even
   so, claims Peter Osnos, senior fellow at the Century Foundation, a New
   York-based think-tank, since September 2001 the Bush administration's
   attempts "to intimidate and punish the media, or at least to
   manipulate and mislead it, represents one of the most concerted
   assaults on the first amendment since it was written."

   Under American law, government documents may be classified only to
   protect national security. Presidents have at times no doubt stretched
   the definition, but George Bush has gone further than any. Partly as a
   result of an executive order of 2003, the number of documents being
   stamped secret or classified has almost quadrupled--from 5.8m under
   Bill Clinton in 1996 to more than 20m last year, according to figures
   released by the Information Security Oversight Office (part of
   America's national archives). Peter Galison, a Harvard professor,
   reckons that "the classified universe...is certainly not smaller and
   very probably much larger than [the] unclassified one." If true, more
   is kept hidden than revealed.

   A tilt too far

   Mr Bush has always had a penchant for secrecy. In 2001 he signed an
   executive order allowing a president or vice-president to block the
   release of their papers, perhaps indefinitely, instead of within 12
   years of leaving office.

   But national security is the commonest justification for the vast
   expansion of classification. Seeking to explain his 2003 executive
   order, Mr Bush spoke of the need to strike the right balance between
   security and open government. "Our nation's progress depends on the
   free flow of information," he conceded. "Nevertheless, throughout our
   history, the national defence has required that certain information be
   maintained in confidence in order to protect our citizens, our
   democratic institutions, our homeland security and our interactions
   with foreign nations."

   For many constitutional scholars, members of Congress and most
   journalists, the administration has tilted the balance too far towards
   maintaining "certain information...in confidence". Congress has
   repeatedly been denied access to documents; newspapers have been
   threatened with prosecution for revealing "state secrets" (such as Mr
   Bush's warrantless eavesdropping programme), and journalists have been
   jailed for contempt of court after refusing to reveal their sources.

   In Britain, too, freedom of expression has been under attack. With its
   Official Secrets Act, tough libel laws and tight restrictions on
   post-charge reporting of criminal investigations and trials, Britain
   has always placed more restrictions on free speech than America. It
   has now gone further. The 2006 Terrorism Act makes it a crime to
   publish a statement that "glorifies the commission or preparation" of
   a terrorist act, "whether in the past, in the future, or generally".
   On the face of it, this might make criminal the statue of Nelson
   Mandela recently erected in Parliament Square: parts of the British
   government once regarded him as a terrorist.

   Another British law, passed in 2005, criminalises demonstrations
   within a kilometre of Parliament without police permission, which
   normally has to be obtained at least six days in advance. This has led
   to farcical moments, such as the arrest of a woman picnicking in
   Parliament Square with "PEACE" marked in icing on a cake, and of
   another for reading out the names of British soldiers killed in Iraq.

                                                                      EPA
                                                                      EPA

                                     Politkovskaya, pen cut down by sword

   At the first meeting of the UN General Assembly in London in 1946,
   delegates described freedom of expression as "the touchstone of all
   human rights". In practice, that freedom has never been totally
   unfettered, even in America. As the Supreme Court famously ruled in
   1919, falsely shouting "Fire!" in a crowded theatre is not protected
   by the first amendment. Under the European Convention on Human Rights,
   freedom of expression is subject to a wide range of possible
   restrictions, including national laws banning speech likely to incite
   or "stir up" hatred against people on the basis of race, ethnic
   origin, religion or sexual orientation. Iceland goes further,
   criminalising speech that simply ridicules or insults someone on those
   grounds. Brazil, Singapore, Serbia, New Zealand and the Australian
   state of Victoria have similar race-hate laws.

   Since 2001, these sorts of restrictions have been expanded to apply to
   Muslims. Before the attacks of that year, Britain, for example, had a
   law prohibiting the incitement of racial hatred which applied to Jews
   and Sikhs (because they were deemed by the courts to be racial as well
   as religious groups), but not to Muslims, Christians or others.
   Responding to the rise in verbal and physical attacks on Muslims after
   2001, the government sought to plug that gap, proposing a ban on the
   "reckless" use of "threatening, insulting or abusive" language against
   anyone on the ground of his faith. Free-speech critics insisted that
   some element of intent be involved, claiming that otherwise religious
   works such as the Bible or the Koran could be deemed unlawful.

   The government relented. Under the Racial and Religious Hatred Act,
   which came into force on October 1st, it is now a crime for someone to
   use threatening words or behaviour only "if he intends thereby to stir
   up religious hatred". The new law does not outlaw "expressions of
   antipathy, dislike, ridicule, insult or abuse of particular
   religions". Comedians and satirists will thus be able to continue to
   poke fun at religion without fear of prosecution. But members of the
   far-right British National Party will no longer be able to claim that
   Muslim gangs are grooming and raping British children and women,
   helping turn British society into a "multiracial hell", as Nick
   Griffin, the party's leader, is alleged to have said.

   Shutting up by choice

   Sometimes the press has decided to censor itself. In September 2005 a
   Danish newspaper published cartoons of the prophet Muhammad. After
   violent protests throughout the Muslim world, most Western papers
   decided not to repeat the publication. Some editors who chose
   otherwise were reprimanded or removed. In Yemen and Jordan, they were
   arrested and their papers shut down.

   At other times legislators have decided to curtail free speech for
   what they consider impeccable reasons. In much of mainland Europe, it
   is a crime to deny that the Holocaust took place. Last year David
   Irving, a British revisionist historian, was jailed by Austria for
   three years for this, though attempts to make Holocaust denial a crime
   throughout the European Union got nowhere this year. In Turkey, a
   string of journalists and writers have been prosecuted for the crime
   of "insulting Turkishness", though both the president and prime
   minister say they want to abolish or amend the controversial article
   301 of the penal code on which the prosecutions were based.

   Attempts to gag the press in democratic countries usually fail. In
   America, Congress is considering a bill to allow journalists (and
   bloggers) to protect their sources without fear of prosecution--save
   when national security is at stake. Thomas Jefferson had something to
   say about that. "The only security of all is in a free press," he
   wrote to Lafayette in 1823. "The force of public opinion cannot be
   resisted when permitted freely to be expressed. The agitation it
   produces must be submitted to. It is necessary--to keep the waters
   pure."


                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   The persuasive powers of reformed jihadists are being used to
   "re-educate" terrorists. This story looks at Indonesia, the next looks
   at the Middle East (see [3]article) 

   MEETING Nasir Abas at one of Indonesia's trendiest hotels, it is hard
   to imagine that this polite man in casual Western clothes was once a
   leader of Jemaah Islamiah (JI), the region's most dangerous terrorist
   group. Now his job is to persuade his former comrades to give up the
   idea of perpetrating violence against the West in the name of Islam.

   As he explains in his mild-mannered way, he uses two lines of
   argument. One is theological: he points out the verses in the Koran
   that forbid aggressive warfare, and which insist that the lives of
   non-combatants, especially women and children, must be protected. The
   other line is more strategic: to convince his listeners that not all
   Westerners are anti-Muslim, he stresses the fact that many Americans
   opposed the war in Iraq. And he challenges them: have terrorist bombs
   made people respect Islam more? Some prisoners angrily reject his
   arguments, he says--but as long as they are still prepared to listen
   to them, he thinks it worth continuing to try.

   Indonesia's anti-terrorism police, like their counterparts in many
   other countries, have set up a programme to "deradicalise" Islamist
   militants. Just as the internet now provides "courses" designed to
   persuade young Muslims that terrorist violence is legitimate--by
   arguing, for example, that killing civilians might be necessary in
   some circumstances--governments and traditional theologians are
   working hard to develop and use arguments that guide people the other
   way.

   In many countries, moderate Islamic clerics are expected to do most of
   the persuading--and they must run the risk of being viewed as
   government stooges. The Indonesian authorities have taken the risky
   step of using ex-militants, some of whom have only slightly moderated
   their views on when violence is acceptable.

   Like many of the jihadists round the world who enjoy sufficient
   "street credibility" to sway younger hearts and minds, Mr Abas won his
   spurs as a fighter in the American-backed campaign against the Soviet
   occupation of Afghanistan. While some Saudi veterans of that campaign
   began directing their energy against their homeland, Mr Abas--who was
   born in Singapore but grew up in Malaysia--returned to his own native
   region to spread the ultra-Islamist fire. He set up a JI network in
   the Philippines.

   He had moved to Jakarta by the time the group bombed a nightclub in
   Bali in 2002, killing 202 people. He insists he was not involved in
   that operation and always disapproved of attacking civilians. But as a
   leading strategist in the organisation and the brother-in-law of one
   of the main conspirators, Mukhlas, he was arrested and given a short
   jail sentence.

   The 2002 bombing, followed by others against foreign targets in Bali
   and Jakarta, forced an overhaul of Indonesia's police and intelligence
   services. As JI members were rounded up, two new police squads decided
   to see if they could get some of them to co-operate. Through
   kindnesses, such as arranging family visits, they hoped to dispel the
   jihadists' assumption that all policemen are thoghut (un-Islamic), and
   thereby to encourage them to reconsider other deeply held views. The
   next step was to get those militants who still believed in the
   rightness of the bombings to listen to those, like Mr Abas, who had
   disapproved of them all along, or other co-operating but harder-line
   militants like Ali Imron, who had become convinced that the attacks
   were wrong only more recently.

   Unlike many other Muslim countries that are experimenting with
   deradicalisation schemes--these include Egypt, Yemen, Saudi Arabia and
   Algeria--Indonesia has a relatively open political system where the
   actions of the police must face public and parliamentary scrutiny.
   There was uproar when the police handlers of the scheme were seen
   treating Mr Imron, who was directly implicated in the Bali bombings,
   to coffee at a fancy Jakarta mall in 2004. Since then he has kept a
   lower profile, staying at the capital's police headquarters. In
   another sign of Indonesia's openness, the authorities gave an
   independent think-tank, the International Crisis Group (ICG), enough
   access to make a broad evaluation of their scheme.

   The ICG's report, in late November, was fairly positive, though it
   expressed some serious worries. Its main one was that the extreme
   corruption and disorder found in Indonesia's prisons may be negating
   all the scheme's attempts to persuade jailed militants that the system
   they are fighting is not utterly thoghut. With some prisoners
   rejecting attempts to deradicalise them, the ICG says the scheme may
   be succeeding only on those who are not particularly dangerous. The
   ICG's Sidney Jones says JI has gone "dormant", so it may no longer
   make sense to focus efforts on its members. Meanwhile, the unreformed
   radicals may be recruiting among the ranks of ordinary prisoners as
   fast as the police-run scheme is deradicalising. And, outside the
   prison walls, other influences such as the dozens of pesantren
   (boarding schools) run openly by JI men, may be turning out more young
   militants.

   A policeman close to the project admits that probably, more radicals
   are being created than are being won over to moderation. But he
   insists that the project has at least got prisoners to divulge
   valuable intelligence. The country now has some policemen with insight
   into the militants' thinking--before, they hadn't a clue. This has
   helped police round up many of JI's leaders including, in June, the
   group's presumed military chief, Abu Dujana, who went on trial this
   week. And there have been no more bombs since 2005.

   Still, any crime-fighting strategy based on the idea of "taking a
   thief to catch a thief" can encounter ethical dilemmas. In Indonesia,
   some of the people the police hired to deradicalise prisoners are only
   marginally less militant than those being lectured to. Mr Imron
   apparently still argues that bombings could be legitimate in
   Indonesia--if there were sufficient public support for them.

   The police's rationale for letting him argue this is that his fairly
   extreme views give him more credibility among his "pupils" than
   someone more moderate and pro-establishment could ever have. As the
   ICG report notes, the whole project is based on the assumption that,
   by bolstering a somewhat more moderate Islamic view of the world, the
   most radical, violent variety is weakened. That is hard to
   disprove--but by lending credibility to some relatively fundamentalist
   views by paying someone to argue them, the authorities may be in
   danger of appearing to endorse them.

   For all the doubts, Indonesia's deradicalisation programme does at
   least seem more likely to produce positive results than the methods
   being tried in Thailand's Muslim-majority southern provinces. The army
   (which seized power in a coup last year) has scooped up hundreds of
   young Muslims merely suspected of "links" to the region's separatist
   uprising, and sent them to camps for compulsory "job training". Last
   month a group of almost 400 of them won a court order declaring their
   detention illegal. If any policy is likely to turn locals against the
   authorities and act as a recruiting-sergeant for militants, this is
   it.


   Civil and democratic rights are in retreat, says an organisation with
   strong, though not uncontested, views on the matter

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   OVER the past half century, it often seemed that the advance of
   democracy and basic freedoms--the right to speak and write without
   fear of persecution, to demand political change, and so on--was
   ineluctable. First the Europeans let their colonies go. Then the
   Soviet empire fell, and with it the communist monopoly on power in
   eastern Europe. And apartheid ended in South Africa.

   Recently, though, freedom's progress may have come to a halt, or even
   gone into reverse. That, at least, is the conclusion of Freedom House,
   an august American lobby group whose observations on the state of
   liberty are a keenly watched indicator. Its report for 2007 speaks of
   a "profoundly disturbing deterioration" in the global picture, with
   reversals seen in 38 countries--nearly four times as many as are
   showing any sign of improvement.

   Using the think-tank's long-established division of the world into
   "free", "partly free" and "not free" countries, the planet is still a
   better place than it was a quarter-century ago. In other words, there
   are still net gains from the fall of communism, at least in central
   Europe, and the decline of militarism in Latin America. But the
   short-term trends seem worrying. Last year was the second in a row
   when liberty, as defined by Freedom House, inched back.

   An especially disturbing sign, says the organisation, is the number of
   countries in all regions of the world where a previously hopeful trend
   has gone into reverse. They include Bangladesh (where the armed forces
   took over last year), Sri Lanka (whose civil war flared up) and the
   Philippines. Other backsliders included Nigeria and Kenya, accounting
   for more than one sub-Saharan African in four between them, plus the
   Palestinian territories and Lebanon. In both Georgia and Kyrgyzstan,
   former Soviet republics whose "colour revolutions" were warmly
   encouraged by Freedom House, there was regression. Only two countries,
   Thailand and Togo, made a clear leap forward last year, going from
   "not free" to "partly free".

   No country joined the top "free" group, and a total of 43 countries,
   representing 36% of the world's population, now languish in the "not
   free" group. None of the eight "worst of the worst"--Cuba, Libya,
   North Korea, Myanmar, Somalia, Sudan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan--was
   credited with any sign of improvement.

   Of course, not all the targets of Freedom House's ire will feel
   embarrassed by their low scores. For example, Cuba's envoys to the
   United Nations have angrily denounced the organisation as a blatant
   instrument of "interventionist activities" by dark forces in
   Washington. And in slightly more respectable quarters (on America's
   academic left, for example) the analysts at Freedom House have been
   criticised for hewing too close to their home country's foreign
   policy.

   So where exactly does Freedom House come from? It was founded in 1941
   by Wendell Willkie and Eleanor Roosevelt, as a counter to Nazism.
   During the cold war it "fought the good fight" against Soviet-backed
   tyrannies but also had harsh words for dictators on America's side of
   the stand-off. At least in American terms, its bosses and trustees
   have covered a broadish range of Republicans and Democrats. James
   Woolsey, a former CIA director, once served as its chairman. Past
   trustees have included Donald Rumsfeld, an ex-defence secretary, and
   Paul Wolfowitz, another Republican luminary who held high office at
   the Pentagon. But board members have also included Lane Kirkland, a
   Democrat who led America's labour movement for 16 years.

   Freedom House not only watches the state of liberty, it also calls
   itself a "catalyst" for the peaceful advancement of civil and
   democratic rights through "analysis, advocacy and action". But it has
   firm ideas about which country is best placed to promote these ideals:
   it has formally stated that whatever their differences, all trustees
   are agreed that "American leadership in international affairs is
   essential to the cause of human rights and freedom." When America
   attacked Iraq in 2003, Freedom House wished the campaign well.

   Nor does the organisation conceal its financial ties to the American
   government, which supplies about 80% of its income. But it strongly
   denies that it acts as an arm of the government, or that it holds back
   from criticising America and its friends when that is warranted. And
   it would be hard to argue that diplomatic friendship with the United
   States has ever guaranteed a country a free pass from the think-tank.
   Israel, a close American friend, used to get relatively poor grades--a
   2 for political rights and a 3 for civil liberties on a descending
   scale of 1 to 7. In recent years, Israel has improved its scores, but
   only in 2005 did its civil-liberty rating rise to 2.

   Japan, another American ally, has also struggled to keep up its grades
   at Freedom House. Having started with a 2 for political rights and a 1
   for civil liberties, it got top marks throughout the 1980s, only to
   slip back to a grade 2 in both categories in the early 1990s. Since
   1995, it has been getting a grade 1 for political rights, but still
   only a 2 for civil liberties. Meanwhile some of America's strategic
   allies, such as Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Egypt, have seen virtually
   no rise in their ratings since the September 2001 terrorist attacks
   despite their role as partners in the "war on terror". All have
   continued to languish at or near the bottom of the pile.

   Insiders say that in years past, there was some internal debate at
   Freedom House over whether or not economic welfare, which affects the
   range of choices people can make, should be included in the calculus
   of liberty. But the decision has been to keep economic factors out.
   This helps to explain why China, in the midst of the horrors of its
   Cultural Revolution when the surveys began, has hardly managed to
   improve on its early, rock-bottom ratings. Its "civil liberties" are
   still assessed at a dismal 6.

   Russia, too, has been rated on the basis of its worsening human and
   political rights with no account taken of rising living standards. It
   was awarded a relatively good 3 for both political rights and civil
   liberties in 1991, bringing it within a whisker of membership of the
   "free" group, but is now locked again in the "not free" camp.

   How much freer do people feel when they have a few roubles or yuan in
   their pocket (and access to other goodies like computers and compact
   discs)? That is an endlessly debatable question. By contrast the sort
   of liberties and non-liberties measured by Freedom House (multi-party
   elections, due process and so on) are relatively tangible and easy to
   assess. That alone may be quite a good argument for having at least
   one index whose stated purpose is to assess formal freedoms--to vote,
   speak, assemble and so on. That does not imply that other factors,
   such as prosperity, have no bearing on how free people feel.

   In any event, critics of Freedom House will soon have fresh material
   which they can test for pro-American bias: a special report on civil
   liberties in the United States is to be published, probably in March.


                                                                    Alamy

                                   Alamy

   Money and effort aren't enough to impart the skills and knowledge
   needed in a cut-throat world

   SPOOKED by the effects of globalisation on their low-skilled citizens,
   rich countries have been pouring money and political energy into
   education. In the United States, it has been proclaimed that no child
   will be left behind. Whether this programme, launched by George Bush
   in 2002, has raised standards will be a big issue in the 2008
   presidential election. Next year Britain will introduce ambitious new
   qualifications, combining academic and vocational study. For the
   industrial countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
   Development (OECD), average spending on primary and secondary
   schooling rose by almost two-fifths in real terms between 1995 and
   2004.

   Oddly, this has had little measurable effect. The latest report from
   the OECD's Programme for International Student Assessment shows
   average attainment staying largely flat. This tome, just published,
   compares the reading, mathematical and scientific progress of 400,000
   15-year-olds in the 30 OECD countries and 27 others, covering 87% of
   the world economy. Its predecessors in 2000 and 2003 focused on
   reading and maths respectively. This time science took centre stage.

   At the top are some old stars: Finland as usual did best for all-round
   excellence, followed by South Korea (which did best in reading) and
   Hong Kong; Canada and Taiwan were strong but slightly patchier,
   followed by Australia and Japan. At the bottom, Mexico, still the
   weakest performer in the OECD, showed gains in maths; Chile did best
   in Latin America.

   There is bad news for the United States: average performance was poor
   by world standards. Its schools serve strong students only moderately
   well, and do downright poorly with the large numbers of weak students.
   A quarter of 15-year-olds do not even reach basic levels of scientific
   competence (against an OECD average of a fifth). According to Andreas
   Schleicher, the OECD's head of education research, Americans are only
   now realising the scale of the task they face. Some individual states
   would welcome a separate assessment.

   The results are unsettling for Britain, too. The country was excluded
   from the OECD's 2003 study because its sample of students was so poor.
   That, conveniently, disguised what is now apparent: that the excellent
   results of 2000, when the country came seventh in reading and well
   above average in both maths and science, were a statistical blip. This
   time Britain is way down the league in all three subjects. OECD
   analysts and British officials are highlighting the good news:
   immigrants do comparatively well, and 3% of British students put in
   top-ranking performances in science, as compared with only 1% across
   the OECD. "A fresh start," said OECD officials, diplomatically--but
   the results have embarrassed a government that claims to have put
   education at the top of its agenda for a decade.

   The improvement prize went to Poland, an also-ran in 2000. That
   reflects not increased spending, but successful reforms in 1999, which
   ended the practice of early selection on ability. By the second study,
   in 2003, the gains were already noticeable--and so marked that OECD
   statisticians cautioned privately that two data points do not make a
   trend, and decided to wait and see what happened next time. Further
   improvements have dispelled all doubts, making Poles the poster
   children for the proposition that early "tracking"--allocating pupils
   to different sorts of schools or programmes--hurts weak ones without
   benefiting the rest. "We have learnt that you can really make a change
   by bringing weaker performers into more demanding streams," says
   Barbara Ischinger, the OECD's director of education.

   Letting schools run themselves seems to boost a country's position in
   this high-stakes international tournament: giving school principals
   the power to control budgets, set incentives and decide whom to hire
   and how much to pay them. Publishing school results helps, too. More
   important than either, though, are high-quality teachers: a common
   factor among all the best performers is that teachers are drawn from
   the top ranks of graduates.

   Another common theme is that rising educational tides seem to lift all
   boats. In general--the United States and Britain may be
   exceptions--countries do well either by children of all abilities, or
   by none. Those where many do well are also those where few fall
   behind. A new feature in this year's study is an attempt to work out
   how differences between schools, as opposed to differences within
   them, determine performance (see chart). Variation between schools is
   big in Germany (to be expected, as most schools select children on
   ground of ability). But results also vary in some countries (like
   Japan) with nominally comprehensive systems. In top-performing
   Finland, by contrast, the differences between schools are nearly
   trivial.

                                                                    Alamy
                                                                    Alamy

                                              I'll show you how to be top

   And what can be done to ensure that budding scientists blossom? Give
   them teachers with excellent qualifications in science, spend plenty
   of time on the subject and engage their enthusiasm with after-school
   clubs, events and competitions, says the report. One does not need to
   understand string theory to grasp this, but doing the first two is
   hard. All science graduates, and physics graduates in particular, have
   a head start in other high-paid fields, such as financial services.
   And school curriculums are under constant pressure from meddlesome
   governments.

   The last recommendation--sparking children's interest in the subject
   with appealing science-based activities--comes with a caveat: a keen
   interest in science does not always mean being good at it. Half of all
   young Mexicans fail to reach basic levels of scientific literacy, but
   they value science more highly than their counterparts almost
   everywhere else. And across the world, the less students know about
   science, the more optimistic they are about the chances of solving the
   planet's environmental problems.


   What works in education: the lessons according to McKinsey

   THE British government, says Sir Michael Barber, once an adviser to
   the former prime minister, Tony Blair, has changed pretty much every
   aspect of education policy in England and Wales, often more than once.
   "The funding of schools, the governance of schools, curriculum
   standards, assessment and testing, the role of local government, the
   role of national government, the range and nature of national
   agencies, schools admissions"--you name it, it's been changed and
   sometimes changed back. The only thing that hasn't changed has been
   the outcome. According to the National Foundation for Education
   Research, there had been (until recently) no measurable improvement in
   the standards of literacy and numeracy in primary schools for 50
   years.

   England and Wales are not alone. Australia has almost tripled
   education spending per student since 1970. No improvement. American
   spending has almost doubled since 1980 and class sizes are the lowest
   ever. Again, nothing. No matter what you do, it seems, standards
   refuse to budge (see chart). To misquote Woody Allen, those who can't
   do, teach; those who can't teach, run the schools.

   Why bother, you might wonder. Nothing seems to matter. Yet something
   must. There are big variations in educational standards between
   countries. These have been measured and re-measured by the OECD's
   Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) which has
   established, first, that the best performing countries do much better
   than the worst and, second, that the same countries head such league
   tables again and again: Canada, Finland, Japan, Singapore, South
   Korea.

   Those findings raise what ought to be a fruitful question: what do the
   successful lot have in common? Yet the answer to that has proved
   surprisingly elusive. Not more money. Singapore spends less per
   student than most. Nor more study time. Finnish students begin school
   later, and study fewer hours, than in other rich countries.

   Now, an organisation from outside the teaching fold--McKinsey, a
   consultancy that advises companies and governments--has boldly gone
   where educationalists have mostly never gone: into policy
   recommendations based on the PISA findings. Schools, it says[3]*, need
   to do three things: get the best teachers; get the best out of
   teachers; and step in when pupils start to lag behind. That may not
   sound exactly "first-of-its-kind" (which is how Andreas Schleicher,
   the OECD's head of education research, describes McKinsey's approach):
   schools surely do all this already? Actually, they don't. If these
   ideas were really taken seriously, they would change education
   radically.

   Begin with hiring the best. There is no question that, as one South
   Korean official put it, "the quality of an education system cannot
   exceed the quality of its teachers." Studies in Tennessee and Dallas
   have shown that, if you take pupils of average ability and give them
   to teachers deemed in the top fifth of the profession, they end up in
   the top 10% of student performers; if you give them to teachers from
   the bottom fifth, they end up at the bottom. The quality of teachers
   affects student performance more than anything else.

   Yet most school systems do not go all out to get the best. The New
   Commission on the Skills of the American Workforce, a non-profit
   organisation, says America typically recruits teachers from the bottom
   third of college graduates. Washington, DC recently hired as
   chancellor for its public schools an alumna of an organisation called
   Teach for America, which seeks out top graduates and hires them to
   teach for two years. Both her appointment and the organisation caused
   a storm.

   A bias against the brightest happens partly because of lack of money
   (governments fear they cannot afford them), and partly because other
   aims get in the way. Almost every rich country has sought to reduce
   class size lately. Yet all other things being equal, smaller classes
   mean more teachers for the same pot of money, producing lower salaries
   and lower professional status. That may explain the paradox that,
   after primary school, there seems little or no relationship between
   class size and educational achievement.

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                             Asian values or good policy?

   McKinsey argues that the best performing education systems
   nevertheless manage to attract the best. In Finland all new teachers
   must have a master's degree. South Korea recruits primary-school
   teachers from the top 5% of graduates, Singapore and Hong Kong from
   the top 30%.

   They do this in a surprising way. You might think that schools should
   offer as much money as possible, seek to attract a large pool of
   applicants into teacher training and then pick the best. Not so, says
   McKinsey. If money were so important, then countries with the highest
   teacher salaries--Germany, Spain and Switzerland--would presumably be
   among the best. They aren't. In practice, the top performers pay no
   more than average salaries.

   Nor do they try to encourage a big pool of trainees and select the
   most successful. Almost the opposite. Singapore screens candidates
   with a fine mesh before teacher training and accepts only the number
   for which there are places. Once in, candidates are employed by the
   education ministry and more or less guaranteed a job. Finland also
   limits the supply of teacher-training places to demand. In both
   countries, teaching is a high-status profession (because it is
   fiercely competitive) and there are generous funds for each trainee
   teacher (because there are few of them).

   South Korea shows how the two systems produce different results. Its
   primary-school teachers have to pass a four-year undergraduate degree
   from one of only a dozen universities. Getting in requires top grades;
   places are rationed to match vacancies. In contrast, secondary-school
   teachers can get a diploma from any one of 350 colleges, with laxer
   selection criteria. This has produced an enormous glut of newly
   qualified secondary-school teachers--11 for each job at last count. As
   a result, secondary-school teaching is the lower status job in South
   Korea; everyone wants to be a primary-school teacher. The lesson seems
   to be that teacher training needs to be hard to get into, not easy.

   Teaching the teachers

   Having got good people, there is a temptation to shove them into
   classrooms and let them get on with it. For understandable reasons,
   teachers rarely get much training in their own classrooms (in
   contrast, doctors do a lot of training in hospital wards). But
   successful countries can still do much to overcome the difficulty.

   Singapore provides teachers with 100 hours of training a year and
   appoints senior teachers to oversee professional development in each
   school. In Japan and Finland, groups of teachers visit each others'
   classrooms and plan lessons together. In Finland, they get an
   afternoon off a week for this. In Boston, which has one of America's
   most improved public-school systems, schedules are arranged so that
   those who teach the same subject have free classes together for common
   planning. This helps spread good ideas around. As one educator
   remarked, "when a brilliant American teacher retires, almost all of
   the lesson plans and practices that she has developed also retire.
   When a Japanese teacher retires, she leaves a legacy."

   Lastly, the most successful countries are distinctive not just in whom
   they employ so things go right but in what they do when things go
   wrong, as they always do. For the past few years, almost all countries
   have begun to focus more attention on testing, the commonest way to
   check if standards are falling. McKinsey's research is neutral on the
   usefulness of this, pointing out that while Boston tests every student
   every year, Finland has largely dispensed with national examinations.
   Similarly, schools in New Zealand and England and Wales are tested
   every three or four years and the results published, whereas
   top-of-the-class Finland has no formal review and keeps the results of
   informal audits confidential.

   But there is a pattern in what countries do once pupils and schools
   start to fail. The top performers intervene early and often. Finland
   has more special-education teachers devoted to laggards than anyone
   else--as many as one teacher in seven in some schools. In any given
   year, a third of pupils get one-on-one remedial lessons. Singapore
   provides extra classes for the bottom 20% of students and teachers are
   expected to stay behind--often for hours--after school to help
   students.

   None of this is rocket science. Yet it goes against some of the
   unspoken assumptions of education policy. Scratch a teacher or an
   administrator (or a parent), and you often hear that it is impossible
   to get the best teachers without paying big salaries; that teachers
   in, say, Singapore have high status because of Confucian values; or
   that Asian pupils are well behaved and attentive for cultural reasons.
   McKinsey's conclusions seem more optimistic: getting good teachers
   depends on how you select and train them; teaching can become a career
   choice for top graduates without paying a fortune; and that, with the
   right policies, schools and pupils are not doomed to lag behind.
   [gray.gif]

   *How the world's best performing schools systems come out on top.
   McKinsey & Co.


   The UN's new secretary-general is neither a dazzler nor a
   grandstander, but (at last) he has some things to show for his long
   hours and dogged phone calls

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP


   ON DECEMBER 31st African Union troops in Darfur exchanged green berets
   for blue ones. That did not make their job of policing Sudan's
   war-wracked western region much easier, but it signalled the formal
   creation of what is set to be the world's biggest peacekeeping
   operation, with 26,000 personnel, under the joint aegis of the AU and
   the United Nations. A fortnight earlier, 187 countries at a UN
   conference in Bali, including China and the United States,
   unexpectedly agreed to begin talks on a global effort to save the
   planet from climate change.

   Apart from those two things, however, Ban Ki-moon would appear to have
   little else to claim for his first year as UN secretary-general. After
   years of headline-grabbing rows, divisions and scandals, the
   beleaguered world body suddenly seems to have gone quiet. No more bold
   plans for sweeping reforms; no more dazzling speeches, or grand
   visions for the organisation's future. Yet behind the scenes, without
   great fanfare, Mr Ban, although still far from a household name, is
   quietly getting things done.

   It has to be admitted that the UN's first Asian secretary-general in
   35 years got off to a poor start. A South Korean career diplomat, he
   knew little of the UN's complex culture, unlike his predecessor, Kofi
   Annan, who had spent his life working his way up through the
   organisation's ranks. Yet one of Mr Ban's first acts was to call for
   the resignation of all Mr Annan's senior advisers, replacing them with
   often inexperienced or even ill-qualified staff from outside the UN.
   His reliance on a coterie of compatriots provoked particular
   irritation.

   There followed a series of embarrassing gaffes from which better
   counsel might have saved him. On learning of Iraqi plans to execute
   Saddam Hussein, for example, he claimed that the death penalty was a
   matter for individual member states--apparently oblivious of the
   General Assembly's history of opposition to capital punishment. During
   a visit to east Jerusalem, he deeply offended Palestinians by
   declaring himself happy to be in Israel. And his early attempts to
   push through UN reforms without adequate consultation raised hackles
   as well as eyebrows, particularly among the developing nations.

   Furthermore, the low-key Mr Ban is not the natural showman that Mr
   Annan was. Smiling and polite, but rather bland in manner, he lacks
   the easy charm and dexterity with the English language that
   distinguished his predecessor. Matters have not been helped by some
   fairly disastrous appointments to his communications team. He is more
   of a doer than a communicator, he insists. Results are what count, not
   flowery phrases and rhetorical flourishes. Yet the latter can be
   useful, particularly when the former are still rather thin on the
   ground.

   In a speech summing up his first year in office, Mr Ban said that he
   had "not sat still". He had flown 125,000 miles, made 57 official
   visits to 39 countries and territories on six continents, held more
   than 300 bilateral meetings with government officials and spent 132
   days "on the road", he noted. But other than getting blue helmets into
   Darfur and helping to get climate-change talks started, what has he
   done?

   Nothing really spectacular, it is true. But that was not his aim. As
   Mr Ban announced before taking up his post, he wanted to concentrate
   on the many lofty goals that had already been set for the world body,
   rather than identify "new frontiers to conquer". In particular, he
   wanted to restore its excellence, integrity and pride by making it
   more efficient, more accountable and more relevant to the needs of all
   its 192 members, including the weightiest of all--the United
   States--without whose support the UN can do little.

   It is easy to forget the antipathy to the UN that existed in many
   American circles when Mr Ban first took over. Fury over the war in
   Iraq and the oil-for-food scandal had only recently died down; and
   many Republicans in particular still regarded the UN as an
   unnecessarily costly, disastrously managed, corruption-ridden obstacle
   to the free exercise of American policies in the world. There was even
   talk of scrapping the world body.

   A year later, the tone has changed markedly, both in Washington and at
   the organisation's headquarters in New York. The departure of both
   John Bolton, America's abrasive ambassador to the UN, and Mr Annan,
   who suffered in Washington from his alleged role in "preventing" UN
   approval for the invasion of Iraq (though that was a decision of the
   Security Council), has helped. So has the appointment of a new, more
   consensual American ambassador, Zalmay Khalilzad, who believes America
   needs friends to operate effectively in an increasingly globalised
   world.

   Eschewing his predecessor's bullying tactics and confrontational
   style, Mr Khalilzad has quickly earned a reputation as a shrewd
   operator. Well-liked and with a lot of charm, he has helped dissipate
   the huge distrust formerly felt towards America, particularly among
   developing countries. Far from wanting to weaken the UN, Mr Khalilzad
   says he wants it to become more involved in places like Afghanistan
   and Iraq (where he has served as ambassador), Darfur and Lebanon. Even
   George Bush is now talking of being committed to a "strong and
   vibrant" UN.

   Is this because America has found a secretary-general who is willing
   to do its bidding? The United States is certainly said to have wanted
   someone weak and pliable to replace the troublesome Mr Annan, and Mr
   Ban was its choice (and China's). But even initial critics admit that
   the inscrutable Korean is far from being an American patsy. Indeed, he
   has skilfully exploited his links with his two most powerful backers
   to push through extremely difficult agreements on both Darfur (opposed
   by China) and climate change (opposed by both China and America).

   Meanwhile, he has been pressing ahead with reforms to make the
   organisation more effective, transparent and honest. As of this week,
   the ethics code for 9,000 staff in the secretariat, established in the
   wake of the oil-for-food scandal, is being extended to all 60,000
   employees in the organisation's various semi-autonomous agencies and
   funds. Any body that does not set up its own ethics monitoring system
   will come under the secretariat's Ethics Office. And sanctions are
   real; just before Christmas, 11 staff found guilty of corruption were
   sacked.

   Mr Ban has also extended the work of the Procurement Task Force,
   likewise set up in the wake of the oil-for-food scandal, to
   investigate allegations of fraud in procurement deals. It has already
   exposed more than $600m in tainted UN contracts, mostly related to
   peacekeeping missions on which more than $5 billion is now spent every
   a year, and is investigating a further $1 billion in suspect deals.

                                                                      EPA
                                                                      EPA

                              Not just a stony face: after Algeria's bomb

   Meanwhile, under the expert guidance of Alicia Brcena, Mr Annan's
   former chef de cabinet and one of the notable survivors of the former
   regime, a commendable start has been made on one of the UN's most
   sensitive and intractable problems--management reform. For the first
   time in the body's history, senior managers have been asked to detail
   all the mandates affecting their departments, some 9,000 in all, with
   a view to chopping or consolidating the thousands that are outdated,
   overlapping or no longer cost-effective.

   Mrs Brcena has also launched a savage campaign against waste. She
   means to save mounds of paper, for example, by getting all the UN's
   present paper reports done electronically. As overseer of a planned $2
   billion renovation of the UN's 39-storey headquarters, she plans to
   save on acres of wasted office space. And she hopes to exploit the
   expected retirement over the next five years of nearly half the UN's
   managerial staff to achieve the almost impossible task at the world
   body of cutting posts and shifting staff to new jobs.

   Contrary to expectations, Mr Ban has also been surprisingly good on
   human-rights issues. Although he can do nothing about the disastrous
   new Human Rights Council, which was set up before he took over, he has
   been pressing ahead with the idea of an international "responsibility
   to protect" civilians from genocide and other atrocities when their
   own governments are unable or unwilling to do so.

   Following that principle's reluctant adoption by the UN summit of
   world leaders in 2005, it risked being still-born. But Mr Ban is now
   seeking to resuscitate it, pushing through the appointment of a
   full-time senior adviser on genocide and other atrocities along with a
   part-time adviser on the "responsibility to protect"--despite initial
   fierce opposition from Russia as well as many developing states who
   object to the violation of their sovereignty by do-gooding Westerners.
   All senior UN appointments have to be approved by a majority of the
   General Assembly.

   In recent weeks Mr Ban has shown that he is sensitive to individual
   tragedy as well as to atrocities on a larger scale. He was visibly
   overcome with emotion when comforting the families of 17 UN staff who
   were killed by a terrorist bomb in Algiers.

   A comeback kid

   After his first six months Mr Ban was widely being written off, in the
   words of one underling, as "mediocrity big-time". Thrown on to a world
   stage for which he was ill-prepared, he seemed destined to political
   oblivion. Despite his evident good intentions and commitment to the
   world body, some survivors from Mr Annan's reign became so
   disillusioned by his lacklustre performance that they thought of
   quitting. No longer.

   As Mr Ban himself admits, his learning curve was steep. He was
   initially overwhelmed by both the sheer size of his job and its lack
   of any real power other than persuasion. As a Korean, he was used to
   putting his job ahead of everything, even his family. But at the UN he
   found a very different culture. Here were 192 sovereign states, each
   apparently determined to put national interests before the common
   good. As a man of integrity, he had perhaps naively hoped to "lead by
   example". At the UN, that is often not possible.

   He has nevertheless won widespread respect. As many staffers and
   ambassadors have noted, what this seemingly grey man lacks in
   charisma, he makes up for in industry, a sharp mind and sheer
   tenacity. He gets on the phone and badgers world leaders relentlessly.
   That is how he got his breakthrough at Bali. That is how he convinced
   China to allow the UN flag to fly in Darfur. And he clearly hopes that
   his quiet doggedness can achieve quite a lot more before he leaves the
   East River.


   America lags behind its peers in preventing avoidable deaths 

   COMPARING the health systems of different countries is a tricky
   business. Even if you look at countries in the same income bracket,
   there are plenty of factors, from demography to culture, that confuse
   the picture. But a new study of data from 19 prosperous nations draws
   one firm conclusion: despite being the top spender per head on health,
   the United States lags painfully, and increasingly, behind other
   wealthy countries in the overall performance of its medical system.

   That harsh judgment is made by Ellen Nolte and Martin McKee,
   researchers at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
   They looked at deaths that should have been preventable by proper
   health care in people under the age of 75. These include deaths
   resulting from bacterial infections, treatable cancers, diabetes and
   surgical complications; over a fifth of male deaths and nearly a third
   of female deaths result from such causes.

   They found that the group as a whole did well in tackling this
   problem: the decline in what they call "amenable mortality" averaged
   16% across these countries from 1997 to 2003: the decline was 17% for
   men and 14% for women. But the news was not so good in the United
   States; it had the worst record of the countries studied. America cut
   "amenable" deaths by only 4% during that period; it fell to bottom of
   the table.

   The study makes two sharp observations. First, countries that started
   off with low levels of avoidable deaths (like France) and those with
   higher levels (like Britain) saw big improvements, even as America
   lagged. Second, merely by lifting its performance to the level of the
   average rich country, America could avoid perhaps 75,000 "excess
   deaths" per year; if it matched the top three, it could save 100,000
   lives a year. There are things to be said in the American system's
   defence; for example, it has an impressive history of medical
   innovation. But for Americans wondering what their country's big
   spending on health care really buys, the conclusions are sobering.


   Vladimir Putin's recent diatribe against America reflects the deeply
   resentful attitude the former superpower has towards the remaining one

                                                                       AP

                                     AP


   ONE way to understand Russia's bloody history is to see it as an
   oscillating tussle between forces bent on emulating the West and those
   resolved to shun it. For much of the 20th century, the chief object of
   Russian admiration and revulsion has been the United States--the
   country that, with its combinations of fissiparous diversity and
   fierce patriotism, insularity and messianic sense of destiny, Russia
   arguably most resembles. After the rushed, giddy embrace of American
   ideas in the 1990s, the anti-Western impulse has again become
   increasingly conspicuous during the presidency of Vladimir Putin.
   Judging by his speech at a conference in Munich on February 10th, the
   ascendancy of this old reflex is now complete.

   Addressing Robert Gates, America's defence secretary, John McCain, a
   Republican senator, Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel and other
   bigwigs, Mr Putin gave a blunt prcis of Russian grievances with
   America. "Unilateral and frequently illegitimate actions," he said,
   had "caused new human tragedies and created new centres of tension."
   The world, Mr Putin added, was witnessing "an almost uncontained hyper
   use of force", which was plunging it into "an abyss of permanent
   conflicts". Lest anyone mistake him, he specified that "the United
   States has overstepped its national borders in every way," exhibiting
   "a greater and greater disdain" for international law. This was
   fuelling an arms race and driving some countries to acquire weapons of
   mass destruction.

   None of this was strictly new: Mr Putin and other Russian officials
   have made all these points before. But the tone, forum and
   concentration of his criticism distinguished this outburst. Other
   denunciations of America have been more periphrastic ("comrade wolf
   knows who to eat," Mr Putin said obliquely last year, "and he eats
   without listening to others"). He probably meant to cause a stir in
   Munich even before Mr Gates last week listed Russia's "uncertain path"
   among America's military concerns. And he succeeded.

   Two questions stand out amid the fury and incredulity that Mr Putin's
   speech provoked. First, how did it come to this? After he and George
   Bush met for the first time, in 2001--when both were greenhorn leaders
   with questionable mandates--Mr Bush famously said he had looked into
   his counterpart's soul, and liked what he saw. Mr Putin's solidarity
   after the September 11th terrorist attacks seemed to augur a new era
   in Russian-American relations. Less than six years on, they seem to
   have reached a post-Soviet nadir. The second question is, how much
   deeper might they sink?

   In their early enthusiasm for Mr Putin, some diplomats clearly made a
   classic error in Western thinking about Russian leaders: wishful
   thinking. What some saw as a strategic choice for partnership with
   America seems, for the Kremlin, to have been instead a tactical
   alliance. In return for what the Russians saw as
   concessions--tolerating America's military presence in Central Asia;
   swallowing NATO's expansion to Russia's Baltic border--the Russians
   expected something back. Instead, they feel, there was mounting
   criticism of their domestic affairs, disdain for their views on Iraq
   and resistance to the international ambitions of Russian companies.

   Mr Putin's assault, from 2003, on the Yukos oil company and its boss,
   Mikhail Khodorkovsky, helped to bring these resentments to the
   surface. But the most important watershed came in autumn 2004. After
   the Beslan school massacre, something in Mr Putin seemed to snap; he
   denounced unnamed foreign powers that, he said, were intent on
   weakening Russia. Then came the Kremlin's cack-handed efforts to
   intervene in Ukraine's presidential election. The Russians saw their
   defeat in Ukraine as evidence of perfidious American meddling in
   Russia's sphere of influence. For the Americans, the debacle showed
   that a truth plain in Mr Putin's domestic policies--that he was not a
   real democrat--would affect his country's foreign behaviour too.

   Russia's domestic politics explain Mr Putin's Munich performance as
   much as do his foreign frustrations. As the president nears the end of
   his constitutional term, he is determined--says Fyodor Lukyanov of
   Russia in Global Affairs, a journal--to prove that on his watch
   "Russia has returned to the global arena." The presidential handover
   in 2008 will be a risky period in the highly personalised system of
   government Mr Putin has created: the old foreign bogeyman may help.

   But the main impact of the big domestic changes under Mr Putin--power
   corralled in the Kremlin, and an oil-fuelled economic revival--has
   been to engender a self-confidence unprecedented since Soviet times.
   Parliament, regional leaders, the media and once-uppity tycoons have
   all been domesticated (Mr Putin evidently did not see the irony of his
   complaint in Munich about "a world in which there is one master, one
   sovereign"). Much of Russia's foreign debt has been repaid. There is
   now no reason--no external obligations, no internal constraint--to
   stop him speaking as he pleases. That was clear at last year's G8
   summit in St Petersburg, when Mr Putin mocked Mr Bush over Iraq, and
   Tony Blair over a corruption scandal.

   Thus emboldened, the Kremlin is now as eager to be feared as liked. It
   feels it can strong-arm foreign energy companies, and object anew to
   things which Russia seemed to have accepted, like America's
   missile-defence plans. Even while asserting that their own strategic
   reach will not be diminished, Mr Putin and others have denounced the
   possible arrival of missile-defence kit in Poland and the Czech
   Republic. They also feel that the power Russia has recovered has to be
   demonstrated to be real--and preferably demonstrated to the diminution
   of America's. That partly explains Russia's behaviour in the Middle
   East, which Mr Putin visited this week, and where he again talked
   mischievously about setting up a "gas OPEC". In Munich he aired
   another telling theory, heard about the Kremlin recently: Russia did
   not lose the cold war but voluntarily ended it.

   These atavistic urges, misunderstandings and, in some cases (such as
   NATO expansion) legitimately conflicting interests, have created a
   diplomatic climate in which, when Alexander Litvinenko, a former
   Russian agent, was murdered in London last year, many people in
   America and elsewhere found it natural to assume that Mr Putin was the
   ultimate culprit (an assumption which, in turn, poisoned relations
   still further). The Munich conference, say some, may become the event
   that future historians will fix on--like Churchill's "iron curtain"
   speech in Fulton, Missouri, in 1946--as the moment when pre-existing
   tensions became explicit. Both Mr Putin and his defence minister,
   Sergei Ivanov, encouraged this epochal thinking by talking about a
   new, if virtual, "Berlin Wall". Kommersant, a Russian paper, observed
   that Mr Putin had only lacked a shoe, like the one once banged by
   Nikita Khrushchev at the United Nations.

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   A hard crossing: the land route (via the Bering Strait) from Russia to
                                  America

   The Fulton analogy goes too far. For all its "petro-arrogance", as
   Dmitri Simes of the Nixon Center in Washington, DC, puts it, Mr
   Putin's Russia is not the Soviet Union. It has a permanent seat on the
   United Nations Security Council, which it can use to thwart American
   policy towards Iran and Kosovo (which may yet provide a pretext for
   even nastier Russian meddling in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, breakaway
   regions of Georgia). It has the biggest hydrocarbon reserves in the
   world, which can be used as "tools of intimidation and blackmail", as
   Dick Cheney alleged in an aggressive speech in Vilnius in May 2006, to
   which Mr Putin's Munich address was in part a riposte. It has lots of
   nuclear arms to underpin its self-esteem. But it does not have the
   conventional forces, nor the economic and ideological resources to
   compete with America globally as it did in the cold war. Rather than
   declaring another one, says Dmitri Trenin of the Carnegie Moscow
   Centre, Mr Putin was staking a claim to be the leader of the global
   opposition--calculating that Iraq made this a propitious time to
   announce Russia's candidacy.

   For the Americans, all that is troubling, but less than catastrophic.
   There are broadly two schools of thought on how to deal with Mr
   Putin's Russia, in Congress and within the administration. One wants
   to confront and even punish the Kremlin, for example by throwing
   Russia out of the G8; the other, to which Mr Bush mostly seems to
   belong, wants to remain congenial to enable co-operation in Iran and
   elsewhere. (In his most emollient Munich passage, Mr Putin recalled
   their early affinity by calling Mr Bush "my friend" and "a decent
   man".) America's reaction to Russia's presidential election--set to be
   more a coronation than a free choice--will be the litmus test of its
   Russia policy. Yet the bottom line is that Russia looms much smaller
   in Mr Bush's mind than vice versa.

   But there are two reasons to fear that the relationship is more likely
   to get worse than recover. One is what is sometimes called the "values
   gap". Mr Putin exposed this gap in Munich, when he aired some very
   Russian neuroses along with his standard critique of American power.
   He said the OSCE--an international body that has mildly and correctly
   criticised rigged elections in some ex-Soviet states--was becoming "a
   vulgar instrument designed to promote the foreign-policy interests of
   one or a group of countries." He again insisted that non-governmental
   organisations active in Russia but funded from abroad were the tools
   of foreign governments. In an interview this week with al-Jazeera, Mr
   Putin made plain the basic conviction underlying these moans: that all
   American talk about Russia's democratic failings was so much
   realpolitik. Critics of Russia's human-rights record, he said, "are
   using this kind of demagogy as a means to pursue their own
   foreign-policy goals in Russia."

   The other worry is that this gap applies not only to Mr Putin and the
   other ex-KGB types who make up much of his entourage, but to many
   ordinary Russians too. General Russian attitudes to America are
   hardening, and suspicion of American motives spreading, even as
   American-style comforts and living standards become more accessible.
   Alexei Levinson, a Russian sociologist, says many Russians exhibit a
   "deep ambivalence" towards America, which has persisted after
   communism's collapse.

   In fact, admiration and revulsion have always co-existed, albeit in
   varying proportions: Stalin himself recommended "the combination of
   Russian revolutionary lan with American efficiency." In a country
   whose media is as tamed as Russia's, public opinion is largely formed
   by government propaganda. But there is evidence--on the streets, as
   well as in opinion polls--that the crescent nationalism of Mr Putin's
   foreign policy is catering to the Russian mood as much as shaping it.


                                              Rafael Andrade/Folha Imagem

                        Rafael Andrade/Folha Imagem

   Edir Macedo (pictured below) and his Universal Church have prospered
   by offering a religion "of results" to the upwardly mobile

   THE Tuesday-lunchtime exorcism at the So Paulo cathedral of the
   Universal Church of the Kingdom of God is well-attended, as always. On
   stage a woman in a brown trouser suit is moaning into a microphone,
   her back to the audience. Her voice flits uncontrollably between gruff
   low tones and high-pitched squeaks. This is the devil talking. He has
   been with her ever since the mistress of her philandering husband went
   to an African cult and put a spell on her. The congregation prays, the
   priest puts his hands on her and the devil is cast out, leaving its
   former host exhausted and shivering.

   Brazil is fertile land for Pentecostalism, a strain of Christianity
   characterised by the belief that God performs miraculous works for his
   faithful so regularly that they can be written into a timetable. The
   best guess of the World Christian Database, an American statistical
   service, is that Brazil has 24m Pentecostal Christians, compared with
   5.7m in the United States, where modern Pentecostalism began.

   The Universal Church is only the third-biggest Pentecostal group in
   Brazil, but it is the most ambitious. It has branches in 172
   countries, but in Brazil it also has its own political party (the
   Partido Republicano Brasileiro, or PRB) and owns Rede Record, the
   second-largest television network (which includes a 24-hour news
   channel).

   The man behind this religious conglomerate is Edir Macedo, known by
   his followers as "the Bishop". One of the world's most successful
   religious entrepreneurs, he does not give interviews. But two of his
   journalists have recently published his authorised biography, "The
   Bishop: the Revelatory Story of Edir Macedo".

   Despite the subtitle, the book gives little away. He describes his
   arrest for charlatanism in 1992 as a blow "like a heart attack", but
   does not deal with the substance of the allegation (he was released
   after just 12 days). The book is long on trivia (Mr Macedo confides
   that his favourite cologne is Acqua di Parma and discusses his large
   collection of Italian silk ties). But there is nothing on the church's
   finances.

   Mr Macedo was born to a fairly comfortable middle-class family that
   became less so when his father died. He and his brothers hawked snacks
   made by their mother round the industrial districts of So Cristovo,
   in Rio de Janeiro state. Mr Macedo got his first regular job in the
   Rio state lottery, thanks to a family political connection. He studied
   at night. His description of his conversion from Catholicism is oddly
   muted.

   From its foundation in 1977, the Universal Church has stressed that
   the faithful would be rewarded for sacrifices, usually of a financial
   kind. Followers are asked to give 10% of their income; "the church of
   results" will then reward them with blessings, in the form of
   miraculous healing, or success for their families or at work. Church
   services often revolve around testimonies of such results. "Offerings
   [to God] are investments," says Mr Macedo.

   Selling prosperity theology to the poor attracts criticism from those
   who believe that the Universal Church exploits the credulity of the
   desperate. In his book Mr Macedo defends himself robustly. Those who
   earn nothing can still come to services and enjoy the large
   air-conditioned hall and a clean bathroom without paying. They may go
   away determined to succeed, and might even give up drinking, stop
   beating their wives and join the church. "Whom have I harmed? That is
   the question: whom have I harmed?" He attacks the Catholic Church for
   eulogising poverty.

   Mr Macedo's success has brought growing influence in Brazilian public
   life. He has built Rede Record, bought for $45m in 1990, into a
   powerful rival to Globo, the country's leading broadcaster. Though the
   Universal Church provides a captive audience for its religious
   programming, Record has grown mainly by showing popular American shows
   and investing in its own telenovelas (soaps). It has secured exclusive
   rights to the Beijing Olympics.

   The PRB, founded in 2005, has only four of the 513 seats in the
   federal Chamber of Deputies. It is driven by pragmatism rather than by
   ideology (it is not hostile to abortion, for example). Its main
   purpose appears to be to defend the interests of the Universal Church
   by deterring attacks from its powerful enemies, which include the
   Catholic church and Globo.

   Preaching in his So Paulo cathedral, Mr Macedo is soothing, his
   message backed by rising chords played on a synthesiser. He asks the
   congregation to talk to God, and a couple of thousand private
   conversations resonate in the hall. Some people start to cry, others
   hold their arms aloft. Then the Bishop gets on to the subject of
   offerings. To sacrifice is divine, he tells the congregation. Maybe
   so, but to devise ingenious business models is human.




   What the loss of a key ally means for the Lula government


   AS THE president of the Senate, Renan Calheiros was perhaps the most
   powerful ally of President Luiz Incio Lula da Silva in Brazil's
   legislature. Seven months ago, the media, acting on tip-offs from the
   federal police, accused him of getting a lobbyist for a construction
   firm to make regular child-maintenance payments to his former
   mistress. On December 4th Mr Calheiros finally resigned his post.

   Thus ended a tenacious rearguard action. As well as the link with the
   lobbyist, Mr Calheiros was alleged to have used shell companies to buy
   two radio stations and a newspaper in his home state, and to have paid
   for a dossier digging up dirt on his enemies in the Senate. He
   protested his innocence. Then his mistress was photographed for
   Playboy (in the same pose as Christine Keeler, a big-eyed brunette who
   ended the career of a British minister in 1963). Mrs Calheiros stood
   by her man. But on December 4th, moments before a crucial vote in the
   Senate ethics committee that would probably have ended his career, Mr
   Calheiros gave in.

   By resigning his presidency before the vote, Mr Calheiros holds on to
   his seat in the Senate. (Had he been censured, he would have been
   barred for eight years from running for office.) That outcome suits
   the government. Indeed, Mr Calheiros's resignation was probably
   negotiated with Lula's men. That is because government support for Mr
   Calheiros was seen as necessary to get through the Senate the renewal
   of the CPMF, a tax on financial transactions worth 30 billion-40
   billion reais ($17 billion-22 billion) a year.

   The twists of the Calheiros affair have nonetheless slowed the
   government down. Getting the CPMF approved has now become a matter of
   urgency. It is meant to be a provisional tax (and is therefore subject
   to periodic renewal). But it is also a constitutional measure,
   requiring a 60% majority. It always generates a tussle. This year the
   fight is particularly intense--so much so that Lula has cancelled his
   foreign trips next week so that he can stay in Braslia and twist
   arms.

   The president has formidable political instincts: one of his staffers,
   who also worked for Brazil's previous president, says that Lula "can
   just smell politics". But he does not expend much energy on managing
   his unwieldy coalition in the legislature. It does not help him that
   next year there will be municipal elections. Not all of the opposition
   parties, who have half the Senate seats, want to help swell government
   coffers before an election year.

   The main cause of the government's difficulties, though, springs from
   Brazil's recent success. Last month the country recorded a small
   current-account deficit, but overall the economic picture is rosy. In
   fact, tax revenues are so buoyant that the government is finding it
   hard to convince congressmen that it needs more money.

   One reason for this abundance is that the CPMF makes tax evasion
   harder, by giving the revenue service information on money moving
   between accounts. Nuno Camara of Dresdner Kleinwort, an investment
   bank, has calculated that the government's tax take has already
   surpassed its own estimates for 2008 by more than 30 billion reais,
   roughly equivalent to what it might expect to get from the CPMF. "If
   you compare the situation now with when we introduced this tax, things
   are completely different," says Paulo Renato Souza, a congressman for
   the opposition PSDB party and former education minister.

   For its part, the government is trying every legal method it can think
   of to get the tax renewed--including cutting its rate from 0.38% to
   0.3% over the next five years, and exempting low earners. The
   government has also revived a proposal to limit increases in
   government salaries to inflation plus 2.5%. "Brazil does need to lower
   its tax burden," says Aloizio Mercadante, a senator for the ruling PT,
   "but suddenly depriving the government of a main source of its revenue
   is not the way to do it."

   A smoother way to lower the government's future appetite for tax
   revenue would be to use money from the CPMF to reduce debt faster.
   Public debt, net of government assets, still stands at 43.5% of GDP.
   That figure is higher than the average for countries which enjoy the
   investment-grade credit rating to which Brazil aspires. Though less so
   than in the past, this debt is still expensive: the government pays a
   real interest rate of 7%. It is also relatively short-term: some 30%
   matures every year. Mr Calheiros's continued presence in the Senate,
   where he still has a great deal of influence, will probably make the
   passage of the CPMF easier. For the government, some good may yet come
   from his less than glorious career.


                                                            Peter Schrank

                               Peter Schrank

   Venezuela and Brazil battle quietly over the shape of a planned
   regional development bank


   THERE have been few more assiduous customers of the International
   Monetary Fund and the World Bank than Latin American governments. Even
   as they privately welcomed the economic rationality that comes with
   loans from the fund and the bank, the region's leaders often blamed
   them for unpopular but needed measures. So it is not surprising that
   many Latin Americans revile the two multilateral institutions. They
   see them as dominated by the United States, and as having imposed the
   "Washington consensus" of macroeconomic stability at the expense of
   other priorities.

   It is that sentiment that Hugo Chvez, Venezuela's leftist president,
   is trying to tap with his plan for a Banco del Sur (Bank of the
   South), a development bank funded and run by Latin American countries
   themselves. If all goes to plan, it will be formally launched next
   month, and could start operating next year. The preparatory talks
   involve Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, Ecuador and Paraguay as well as
   Venezuela.

   But there is a big difference between Mr Chvez's vision for the bank
   and that of others, especially Brazil. This will probably be papered
   over at a meeting in Rio de Janeiro on May 11th--but it just might
   develop into an open split between South America's two most powerful
   countries.

   Mr Chvez sees his bank as part of a wider anti-American political
   project and as an alternative to the IMF and the World Bank, from
   which he says Venezuela will withdraw. He has re-nationalised
   American-owned telecoms and electricity companies. He also threatens
   to pull out of the Organisation of American States if its sister body,
   the Inter-American Human Rights Court, condemns his government in a
   pending media-freedom case.

   It is one thing to badmouth the multilaterals but another to leave
   them, even for oil-rich Venezuela. Pulling out of the IMF would amount
   to a technical default on Venezuela's bonds and would raise the cost
   of future borrowing. Leaving the World Bank would tear up bilateral
   investment treaties that Venezuela has signed with other countries
   (and which use the bank's investment-dispute machinery).

   With the oil price high, Mr Chvez seems happy to alienate foreign
   investors. Others are not. Both Argentina and Brazil have taken
   advantage of economic growth and high commodity prices to pay off
   their debts to the IMF. Neither talks of leaving the fund. Bolivia's
   Evo Morales is one of Mr Chvez's closest disciples, but his finance
   minister says that joining the Bank of the South would not mean
   pulling out of the IMF.

   Ecuador's Rafael Correa shares Mr Chvez's ideas for the new bank. At
   a meeting of finance ministers in Quito earlier this month, he said it
   should combine the emergency-aid functions of the IMF with the project
   lending of the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank.

   But the ministers did not approve that proposal. They decided that the
   Bank of the South would be just a "development bank", adding that a
   stronger regional reserve fund (a small one already exists) might be
   created at a later stage. Brazil's finance minister, Guido Mantega,
   had already rejected the idea that the new bank might provide
   financial first-aid without the tough conditions the IMF imposes. He
   called for "modesty and parsimony" in any new body.

   After the meeting, Mr Mantega said that each country should contribute
   between $300m and $500m to the bank's capital. If so, no single
   country would dominate it, though a coalition of Mr Chvez's closest
   allies might. Brazil's contribution, Mr Mantega suggested, would come
   from the national development bank, the BNDES. The development
   minister, who controls the BNDES, promptly rejected the idea. Though
   Mr Mantega committed Brazil to the bank, the foreign ministry says the
   government is still "analysing" the idea.

   There are existing South American bodies that could serve as the
   nucleus for the new bank, including the Andean Development Corporation
   (CAF) and the Fund for the River Plate Basin (Fonplata). They are not
   political vehicles. Last year CAF lent over $5 billion. Its Bolivian
   chairman, Enrique Garca, has said he welcomes any fresh initiatives
   along the same lines. But many within CAF doubt that the Bank of the
   South is viable.

   The debate over the bank reflects a broader struggle for influence in
   South America between Brazil and Venezuela. Brazil's president, Luiz
   Incio Lula da Silva, has a good relationship with George Bush, whom
   he has met twice in recent weeks. But he has always got along with Mr
   Chvez too, doing little to challenge the Venezuelan's pretensions to
   regional leadership. This friendship goes down well with many in
   Lula's Workers' Party, but it has made Brazil look indifferent to Mr
   Chvez's assaults on Venezuelan democracy.

   Recently, Brazil has distanced itself from Venezuela on some issues.
   In March its communications minister compared Venezuela's state
   television to Cuba's--the closest any Brazilian official has come to
   criticising the anti-democratic drift of Mr Chvez's rule. The two
   countries disagree about energy policy. Mr Chvez echoed Fidel Castro
   in attacking ethanol, just when Lula and Mr Bush agreed to encourage
   its production.

   Brazil's testiness with Venezuela has been sharpened by Bolivia's
   treatment of Petrobras, the state-owned energy firm. A year ago, egged
   on by Mr Chvez, Mr Morales "nationalised" oil and gas, forcing
   Petrobras to accept harsh new terms for its Bolivian operations. On
   May 6th Mr Morales issued a decree giving Bolivia's state-owned YPFB a
   monopoly of sales from Petrobras's two Bolivian refineries, in effect
   expropriating their cash flow. This time Brazil's government weighed
   in to condemn the property grab, giving warning that it could hurt
   relations between the two countries. Petrobras has issued an
   ultimatum: buy the two refineries for a fair price or face
   international arbitration.

   There is an "inflection" in Brazilian policy, with Lula drawing back
   from Venezuela and moving towards pragmatic governments in Chile and
   Peru, argues Srgio Amaral, a former development minister. But, he
   adds, there are "clear limits" to this.

   These are defined partly by business interests. Brazil's exports to
   Venezuela rose by 60% last year. Brazilian multinationals are
   investing heavily. Odebrecht, a construction company, has built a new
   metro line in Caracas and a bridge over the Orinoco, and is building a
   $2.5 billion hydroelectric dam. Braskem, Odebrecht's petrochemicals
   arm, has a $3 billion partnership with state-owned Pequiven, which
   includes building two plants to produce plastic resins. Companhia Vale
   do Rio Doce is eyeing Venezuela's mineral riches.

   So although Brazil may either stall or moderate the plan for a Bank of
   the South, it is unlikely to reject it outright. But next time a
   financial crisis shakes Latin America, expect governments to turn
   again to the IMF rather than to Caracas.


   FARC rebels free two women hostages

   HELLISH tales of men chained to trees, debilitating diseases, and
   surgery carried out with a kitchen knife have emerged from Colombia's
   jungles with the release of two women held captive by leftist FARC
   rebels for the past six years. It is believed to be the first time
   hostages have been freed without any quid pro quo.

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                 Out of the jungle: grandmother Gonzles 

   After a botched release attempt in December, Clara Rojas and Consuelo
   Gonzlez de Perdomo were handed over to a Venezuelan-led commission on
   January 10th and flown to Caracas, the Venezuelan capital, to greet
   awaiting relatives and a beaming Hugo Chvez, Venezuela's president,
   who had brokered the deal.

   Colombians were gripped with horror mixed with fascination as the two
   former Colombian politicians recounted the ordeals they and their
   fellow captives had had to withstand. The 44-year-old Ms Rojas, who
   gave birth to a baby boy fathered by one of her captors in 2004,
   underwent a caesarean on a wooden table. The child, named Emmanuel,
   was taken from her eight months later. The FARC had promised to hand
   over the boy together with his mother and Ms Gonzlez in December. But
   the mission was scrapped when it was discovered that the child had
   been living all along in foster care in Bogot. Mother and son have
   now been reunited.

   The release of the two hostages was aimed at scoring a propaganda
   victory for Mr Chvez, who is regarded by the rebels as a kindred
   spirit. At the same time, evidence of the harsh conditions in the
   FARC's jungle prisons is designed to turn up the pressure on President
   lvaro Uribe to secure the release of the 44 remaining high-profile
   hostages--including Ingrid Betancourt, a former presidential candidate
   with dual French-Colombian citizenship, and three American defence
   contractors--in exchange for hundreds of guerrillas jailed by Mr
   Uribe's government.

   However, Mr Chvez has already upped the ante, appealing to Colombia,
   other Latin American countries and Europe to stop labelling the FARC
   as a terrorist organisation and to classify it instead as a legitimate
   insurgent group. Most government leaders promptly rejected the idea
   out of hand. Daniel Ortega, Nicaragua's president and one-time rebel
   leader, is the only one to have supported it.

   The FARC have long sought political recognition in an attempt to
   downplay their criminal element, says Michael Shifter of a
   Washington-based think-tank, Inter-American Dialogue. They finance
   themselves largely through drug-trafficking and kidnapping for ransom.
   Just three days after the release of the two women, six tourists,
   including one foreigner, were kidnapped near the Pacific town of
   Nuqui.

   Mr Uribe now appears to be trying to call the FARC's bluff. If
   political status is what they want, he says, they will have to sit
   down and engage in a fully fledged peace process to end a conflict
   that has dragged on for four decades. If and when progress is made on
   that front, then Colombia's government "would be the first to stop
   calling them terrorists," he said.

   Proof of their continuing "terrorist" status could be found in the
   letters and photographs of eight of the remaining hostages, sent with
   the released women, Mr Uribe suggested. In a letter to his family,
   Luis Mendieta, a Colombian police officer, who has been held for
   nearly ten years, said his legs had become partially paralysed. "It's
   neither the physical pain nor the chains around my neck that torment
   me," he wrote. "It's the mental anguish."

   Although Mr Uribe may not like it, any deal with the FARC will almost
   certainly have to involve Mr Chvez despite the souring of relations
   between the two men. Last August Mr Uribe invited Mr Chvez to help
   broker a deal with the rebels, only to revoke his decision three
   months later. But when in December the FARC offered to free the two
   women into the hands of the Venezuelan leader, Mr Uribe grudgingly
   accepted. Mr Chvez now accuses Mr Uribe of being uninterested in
   peace, prompting Colombia's foreign minister to demand that the
   Venezuelan leader "cease his political aggression" toward Colombia.

   Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, who has made the release of Mrs
   Betancourt a priority, certainly feels it best to continue to curry
   favour with both men. In separate letters to them, he congratulated Mr
   Uribe for taking "courageous decisions" over the hostages, while
   praising Mr Chvez for his "imaginative and tenacious diplomatic
   action" in securing the release of the women.

   Despite continued tensions between the two presidents, Colombia is
   likely to be seeing rather more of Mr Chvez's imaginative diplomacy.


   For foreign policy, read relations


   CANADIANS knew little about Stephen Harper's foreign policy when his
   Conservative government took office last year, for the simple reason
   that he had not articulated one. They still don't know much. Since the
   election, foreign policy has been dominated by just one issue, that of
   Canadian troops in Afghanistan. Now perhaps they are about to be
   enlightened.

   On July 15th the prime minister is due to head south on a tour that
   will take him to Colombia, Chile, Barbados and Haiti. An odd choice,
   perhaps. The Canadian foreign-policy establishment, in tune with the
   previous Liberal government, likes to make much of the country's
   mission to help Africa. And going to Colombia, rather than say Mexico
   or Brazil, is a brave--or some might think odd--move when its
   president, lvaro Uribe, is under attack in America and Europe for his
   alleged disregard for human rights.

   Mr Harper's answer is that Latin America is part of Canada's
   "neighbourhood". Two-way trade with the region is growing, and
   amounted to C$39 billion ($34 billion) last year--less than 5% of
   Canada's total trade but 15% of the portion that doesn't involve the
   United States. It is an important destination for Canadian investment,
   especially by mining firms. As for Colombia, Canadians buy its
   cocaine, and thus contribute to its human-rights problems. And Mr
   Harper's trip overlaps with a separate one by the governor-general,
   Michalle Jean, to Brazil.

   Some Canadians see Mr Harper's trip as part of his general desire to
   be in step with George Bush. The prime minister has made smooth
   relations with the United States a priority. Afghanistan has become
   the top recipient of Canadian aid. Mr Harper's government has given
   outspoken support to Israel; its relations with China have been
   strained. Nevertheless, this week Mr Harper announced plans to
   purchase up to eight patrol ships for light ice-breaking duties to
   assert Canadian sovereignty over Arctic seaways, which is contested by
   the United States.

   In fact, in much of this there is more continuity than change.
   Relations with Latin America have been getting closer since the
   signing of the North American Free-Trade Agreement with Mexico in
   1992. It was the Liberal government which deployed combat troops to
   Afghanistan; while it talked of a balanced policy in the Middle East
   it tended to take Israel's side when it counted. And few Canadian
   prime ministers have allowed all-important relations with their
   American neighbour to deteriorate.

   Perhaps the main innovation is plain speaking and the dropping of any
   pretence of an over-arching vision. Mr Harper's foreign-policy
   adviser, Roy Rempel, has argued that the myth of Canadians as the
   world's peacekeepers and do-gooders should yield to blunt
   considerations of national interest. Another interpretation is that Mr
   Harper has decided not to have a foreign policy, merely reacting to
   crises and opportunities as they arise.

   This, says Adam Chapnick, of the Canadian Forces College, is in
   keeping with an old Conservative tradition dating back to Canada's
   first prime minister, Sir John Macdonald. When trade relations with
   the United States were debated in the House of Commons, he apparently
   brought two speeches with him--one in support and one opposed--and
   then used the one that contradicted the Liberal stand.


   A rare welcome for foreign oil companies

   OTHER Andean countries, such as Venezuela, Ecuador and Bolivia, have
   all put the squeeze on foreign oil companies, with measures ranging
   from tough new contracts to outright expropriation. But Colombia is
   putting out the welcome mat.

   Colombia shares much of Venezuela's geology. But its oil output is
   smaller; the last big oil find was by BP at Cusiana in the 1980s.
   Having been a modest oil exporter for two decades, it faces becoming a
   net importer unless new discoveries are made. That prospect has
   prompted President lvaro Uribe's government to intensify its
   predecessor's wooing of foreign oil companies. Colombia now offers
   "among the best fiscal terms in the world", says William Drennan of
   Exxon Mobil. These include a sliding scale of royalties varying with
   production and longer contract terms.

   A flurry of investment in exploration to the tune of $1.5 billion a
   year is starting to produce results. In 2006, for the first time in
   years, net oil reserves increased slightly, to 1.51 billion barrels. A
   decade ago, industry analysts expected Colombia to become a net oil
   importer by 2007. Now that date has been pushed back to 2011,
   according to a study by Arthur D. Little, a consultancy. If current
   levels of investment are maintained, Colombia should maintain its oil
   self-sufficiency at least until 2015, says Armando Zamora, the
   director of the National Hydrocarbons Agency.

   More than a dozen foreign companies are now looking for oil in
   Colombia. At the same time, Ecopetrol, the state-owned oil company, is
   operating in a more commercial fashion. It plans to offer 20% of its
   shares (worth perhaps $3 billion) to private investors. It has joined
   forces with Petrobras, a like-minded state oil firm, to explore a
   small field in Brazil.

   Having got itself back on the oil map, Colombia hopes to be able to
   strike a harder bargain. Later this year it will auction contracts to
   explore offshore in the Caribbean. They will go to the companies that
   offer the government the biggest production share. Now all that is
   needed is another Cusiana.


   Women's prominence in politics is not reflected in policies


   AT FIRST glance, Argentina looks almost like a matriarchy. Not only is
   Cristina Fernndez the first woman to be elected as its president, but
   her nearest challenger in October's election was another woman, Elisa
   Carri. Under a 1991 law, 30% of the candidates on party lists for
   Congress must be women, a proportion more than reflected in the
   make-up of its lower house. Argentina's best-known human-rights
   campaigners--the mothers and grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo--have
   also been women.

   That seems like quite a change for a country long notorious for the
   machismo of gauchos and the tango, or of Carlos Menem and Diego
   Maradona. Ms Fernndez makes much of her friendship with another Latin
   American woman president, Chile's Michelle Bachelet. But Ms Bachelet
   did not owe her job to a prominent husband. For Argentine women the
   best route to the political summit is still to be a Peronist wife.

   The tradition began with Eva Duarte, a jobbing actress who became the
   nation's patron saint through marriage to Juan Pern and her agitation
   for women and the poor. Pern's third wife, Mara Estela
   ("Isabelita"), a former nightclub dancer, briefly succeeded him as
   president during Argentina's murderous 1970s. In legislative elections
   in 2005, Ms Fernndez defeated another Peronist wife, Hilda Gonzlez
   de Duhalde, in a race for a Senate seat in Buenos Aires province; that
   was a proxy victory for her husband, Nstor Kirchner, against his
   predecessor and former sponsor, Eduardo Duhalde.

   But the prominence of women in politics has not led to feminist
   policies. Proposals for equal pay and abortion have got nowhere. "We
   have to implement our values," says Mara Eugenia Estenssoro, a
   senator. "Being a woman is not just about skirts. It's about vision."
   Demonstrating that might be one way in which Ms Fernndez can show who
   is boss in the presidential palace.


   Mark Steyn and the thought police

   FOR much of the past century Maclean's, Canada's main newsweekly, has
   been as colourless as its name. But since early 2005, when slumping
   sales prompted a management overhaul, it has become livelier and more
   provocative. Too provocative, it seems, for some Canadians.

   One of its star attractions is Mark Steyn, a columnist who is a
   sparkling, often side-splittingly funny writer and, by his own
   admission, "a Zionist neocon Bush shill". Some readers added
   "Islamophobe" after Maclean's published an alarmist screed by Mr Steyn
   in October 2006 predicting, among other things, that Europe was
   becoming a "Eurabia" overrun by Muslim hordes, intent on jihad and
   sharia.

   The piece, an excerpt from Mr Steyn's book "America Alone: The End Of
   The World As We Know It", was notable for its simplistic demographic
   projections--Yemen (population 22m) will outnumber Russia (141m) by
   mid-century, he wrote confidently--and for the reaction it generated.
   Maclean's published 27 letters, many of complaint. That was not enough
   for some offended Muslims. Last spring a group of Toronto law students
   marched into the magazine's offices demanding equal space for a
   rebuttal by an author of their choosing. Ken Whyte, the editor and
   publisher, told the group he would rather see Maclean's go bankrupt.

   Last month the students and the Canadian Islamic Congress (CIC), a
   lobby group, filed complaints against Maclean's at the Canadian Human
   Rights Commission, as well as those of Ontario and British Columbia.
   The article, the CIC claimed, harmed Muslims' "sense of dignity and
   self-worth".

   Their choice of forum has brought protests. The criminal code has
   hate-propaganda provisions, but using these requires convincing a
   prosecutor. The bar is much lower for Human Rights Commissions and
   their tribunals. These were set up to deal with discrimination on
   grounds such as race or sex in jobs, housing or services. Even the man
   who inspired them, Alan Borovoy, a civil-liberties lawyer, is dismayed
   at their misuse to limit free speech. The tribunals can only levy
   small fines and give an order to desist. But the proceedings involve
   steep costs for defendants, whereas plaintiffs pay nothing if the
   commission decides there are grounds to proceed.

   Much of Canada's press and many broadcasters are already noted for
   politically correct blandness. Some fear that the case can only make
   that worse. Mr Steyn and others hope it will prompt a narrower brief
   for the commissions, or even their abolition. As he put it in his
   blog, "I don't want to get off the hook. I want to take the hook and
   stick it up the collective butt of these thought police."


   Two presidents seek a hostage deal

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                               The Betancourts have the ear of the Elyse


   FOR most of his nearly five years as Colombia's president, lvaro
   Uribe has rejected any deal with the FARC guerrillas for a prisoner
   swap to secure the release of some 60 prominent hostages. So why has
   he suddenly freed nearly 200 FARC prisoners, including Rodrigo Granda,
   one of its leaders?

   Colombians, most of whom support Mr Uribe's tough security policies,
   are baffled. The FARC called the move a "farce". Even more farcically,
   Mr Granda protested against his own release. The FARC insists that it
   will free its hostages, who include Ingrid Betancourt, a former
   presidential candidate seized in 2002, only after a negotiation to be
   held in an area from which the government would withdraw its troops.
   Though Mr Uribe has sometimes wavered on this, he again rejected it
   this week.

   The explanation for Mr Uribe's behaviour probably lies in his
   desperate need for friends abroad. Though he has made Colombia much
   safer, the Democrats who control the United States' Congress criticise
   his government's human-rights record. The president arrived in
   Washington, DC, on June 6th for his second lobbying trip in a month.
   Earlier, a congressional sub-committee voted to cut proposed aid to
   Colombia of some $700m by 10% and shift much of it from military to
   social programmes. The Democrats are also refusing to ratify a
   free-trade agreement with Colombia.

   Mr Uribe's opponents say the prisoner release is to pave the way for a
   controversial proposal to free a dozen pro-government legislators
   jailed on suspicion of links with right-wing paramilitaries. But Mr
   Uribe said he had freed Mr Granda, whose seizure in Venezuela three
   years ago caused a diplomatic row, at the request of Nicolas Sarkozy,
   France's new president.

   Mr Sarkozy's office said that he hoped that Mr Granda's release could
   help free the hostages. Ms Betancourt is a minor figure in Colombia
   but an iconic one in France, where she studied. She has dual
   citizenship and two French children. A vast portrait of her hangs from
   the faade of Paris's town hall. When foreign minister in 2003,
   Dominique de Villepin, her former professor, sent a crack team to
   rescue her; their mission was embarrassingly aborted in Brazil.

   Since his election, Mr Sarkozy has taken up her case with vigour,
   twice inviting her children to the Elyse Palace. Liberating Ms
   Betancourt would be a spectacular political coup for a president whose
   action-man style marks a break with the era of Jacques Chirac and who
   faces two-round legislative elections on June 10th and 17th.

   At what price, though? French diplomats insist they merely want to
   "facilitate" a "humanitarian exchange", and that they are not
   negotiating directly with the FARC, which is listed by Europe and the
   United States as a terrorist organisation. "We do not consider that we
   are breaching our principles," said one diplomat. That may not impress
   Colombians, who watched as the FARC kidnapped a police commander and
   two others this week.


   In our story on Panama ("[3]Glitter and Graft", July 19th) we said
   that COSCO, China's government-owned shipping operator, was competing
   to build a mega-port on the Caribbean coast. In fact it is on Panama's
   Pacific coast. In last week's story on Brazil ("[4]Extinct, or just
   adapting?") we said that Ciro Gomes's wife is a senator. She is not;
   his former wife is. These errors have been corrected online.


   A popular president deadlocked by a determined opposition

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

                                Morales, all dressed-up but going nowhere


   DEADLINES have come and gone but after 15 months of deliberations an
   elected Constituent Assembly seems nowhere near agreeing the text of a
   new constitution for Bolivia. That is a matter of growing frustration
   for the supporters of President Evo Morales, who set up the assembly.
   He promised that the new constitution would enshrine the rights of
   Bolivians of Andean Indian descent to land and autonomy, and uphold a
   socialist economy with state control over national resources.

   But the assembly has become deadlocked, reflecting Bolivia's political
   divide. Although the mountainous and mainly-Indian west is solidly
   behind Mr Morales, the commercially-minded, whiter lowland east is
   bitterly opposed to him. The president's supporters in the Movement to
   Socialism (MAS) have a majority, but not the two-thirds required to
   impose their text. So the opposition has been able to stall the
   assembly.

   Behind all the constitutional verbiage the main dispute is over money.
   Bolivia's natural-gas deposits are in the opposition-controlled east.
   The opposition wants the new constitution to uphold regional autonomy
   and guarantee its regional governments a large chunk of gas royalties.
   Indigenous leaders want similar autonomy, but the government wants to
   secure greater central control of gas revenues.

   Last month similar tensions surfaced in a dispute over whether
   airports should be run locally or from the centre. This culminated in
   Mr Morales sending the army to secure the country's busiest airport,
   in the eastern city of Santa Cruz. When that triggered mass protests
   in the city, the president backed down.

   Mr Morales then promptly announced a big cut in transfers of gas
   revenues to regional governments in order to pay--and increase by a
   third--an annuity received by all Bolivians aged over 60. This was
   originally paid, only to those over 65, out of the dividends from the
   government's shares in privatised hydrocarbons companies. But Mr
   Morales transferred these shares to the revived state oil company as
   part of his scheme to renationalise the industry. The increase in the
   annuity is popular: indeed, the president led a celebratory march by
   pensioners through Santa Cruz.

   The new constitution has also become hostage to an unexpected source
   of opposition. The assembly sits in Sucre, a small central city which
   is the seat of the judiciary and was the capital until displaced by La
   Paz more than a century ago. Sucre wants its status restored. Ugly
   protests in the city prompted the assembly in September to suspend its
   public sessions. The government is seeking alternative venues.

   Despite his radical talk, Mr Morales has a pragmatic streak derived
   from his years as leader of a trade union of coca workers. His
   vice-president, lvaro Garca Linera, spent October negotiating
   tentative agreements with the opposition on the autonomy question and
   on the constitution's economic chapters. On paper, it is not hard to
   see a compromise in which the opposition accepts Mr Morales's desire
   to be allowed to run for a second consecutive term in return for
   guarantees of regional autonomy and a deal on money.

   But the opposition remains suspicious of Mr Morales's intentions. Its
   leaders are alarmed by his close friendship with Venezuela's socialist
   president, Hugo Chvez. Venezuela has become a big aid donor.
   Venezuelan lawyers are reported to be drafting government decrees.
   According to television pictures broadcast by an opposition station,
   the troops who took over Santa Cruz airport included at least two in
   Venezuelan uniforms.

   The latest deadline for the assembly to agree the constitutional text
   is December 14th. Few involved on either side will bet on agreement
   being reached. But Mr Morales remains popular: polls suggest he has
   the support of at least 60% of Bolivians. One way or another he seems
   likely to get his way--or most of it--in the end.


   Why Brazil is better placed than it used to be to cope with a world
   slowdown

                                                           Agencia Estado

                               Agencia Estado

   BRAZILIANS know about economic and financial crises. The squalls
   afflicting America and threatening Europe look like a gentle breeze
   when compared with the frequent and violent blow-ups that litter
   Brazil's economic history. Much of the problem has been Brazil's
   vulnerability to shocks imported from around the rest of the globe. So
   what might happen if the economies in the rich world stumble again
   this year?

   Recent precedents do not look good. Since the introduction of a new
   currency, the real, in 1994, which serves as the year zero for
   economic policy, growth has picked up to a reasonable rate three
   times. Each time, points out Eduardo Giannetti da Fonseca, an
   economist, people have speculated that Brazil was at last on the road
   to a bright new future. And each time something has come along to
   puncture this optimism: in 1998 it was the Asian financial crisis, in
   2001 Argentina's bond default and in 2005 a rapid rise in inflation.

   Now bullishness is abundant once again. The economy grew at an
   estimated annualised rate of 6% in the final quarter of last year
   (which is probably too fast). The Bovespa, Brazil's stockmarket,
   jumped by 60% in value during 2007. And yet even though recent history
   counsels caution, there are reasons to believe that the economy should
   cope better with whatever the world throws at it.

   "Brazil has never been so well placed to face a downturn," says
   Mailson da Nobrega, finance minister from 1988 to 1990, a period that
   coincided with an inflation crisis. He now works for Tendencias, a
   consultancy. Arminio Fraga, who was in charge of the central bank
   during the Argentine collapse and the bond market's swoon at the
   prospect of Luiz Incio Lula da Silva's election as president,
   cautiously agrees. "A lot has been driven by favourable winds," says
   Mr Fraga, who now runs Gavea, an investment fund. "If they stop then
   we are not in a position to blow up, but it won't be irrelevant."

   What changed? First, domestic demand is strong. Brazil's headline real
   interest rate is just below 7% which, as Alexandre Bassoli of HSBC
   bank points out, would tip most countries into recession, but is low
   by Brazilian standards. The result has been a flowering of credit,
   which helped domestic demand grow by an annualised rate of almost 7%
   in the third quarter. It would take a sharp rise in rates to kill this
   off, and that looks unlikely.

   Second, Brazil is fairly well integrated into world markets. It is not
   overly dependent on America, which accounts for less than a fifth of
   exports. The remaining four-fifths are reasonably well spread between
   Europe, Asia and the rest of Latin America. Admittedly, most of what
   Brazil produces for foreign consumption is in the form of primary
   goods (from orange juice to footballers), which means that export
   growth correlates strongly with commodity prices. But exports are not
   made up of any single commodity (unlike oil-rich Venezuela's, for
   example). "Even if China buys less Brazilian iron ore, the hope is
   that Chinese people will keep eating Brazilian protein," says Jose
   Mendonca de Barros of MB Associados, a consultancy.

   Third, Brazil is less vulnerable to financial shocks than it once was.
   A large part of this is due to a combination of a central bank that
   acts independently and transparently, publishing minutes of meetings
   promptly on its website; and a floating exchange rate, adopted in
   1999. Before then, whenever the current account deteriorated, the
   central bank was forced to hike rates, killing growth.

   Brazil has retired its dollar-denominated debt, which has been a
   source of trouble in earlier financial crises. In the past, when the
   currency depreciated this debt ballooned, causing further problems.
   Now that government debt is denominated in reais, a similar move in
   the exchange rate reduces government liabilities. This was tested in
   August last year, when the real lost 11% of its value in a couple of
   weeks, and the government debt effectively shrank. Foreign direct
   investment is strong, and Brazil now holds more dollars than it owes,
   a happy development that has led to misguided suggestions of setting
   up a sovereign wealth fund.

   Even so, Brazil is clearly far from immune to what happens in the rest
   of the world. The economy also seems to be moving into a less benign
   phase. After years of big surpluses, the current account looks set to
   run a small deficit this year. Inflation, which had been falling,
   picked up toward the end of last year to give an annual inflation rate
   in December of 4.5%. That is right on the central bank's target, and
   forecasters expect inflation to increase only slightly this year. But
   markets have been wrong on this before.

   Moreover, the economy still suffers from problems that make growth
   above 5% look like a stretch. Government debt is still too high,
   Brazil invests too little, and the government takes too much for
   itself, spending it on things that do little to raise the economy's
   potential. "The easy part of growth is over," says Mr da Fonseca. But
   if Brazil is able to sustain steady growth without being blown
   off-course by events elsewhere, the country will look very different
   in ten years' time.


   The political vendetta behind another nationalisation


   IT IS becoming a familiar ritual. On February 9th Evo Morales,
   Bolivia's socialist president, flanked by troops, stood in front of
   the Vinto tin smelter and declared it nationalised. Last May he did
   the same to his country's natural-gas industry. In October he said it
   was the turn of mining. Yet with Mr Morales, whose rallying cry is
   "Bolivian resources for the Bolivian people", sometimes the symbolism
   and the rhetoric is more ambitious than the reality.

   So it was with natural gas, where he later signed new, tougher
   contracts with multinationals. The threat to nationalise mining
   quickly changed to a proposal to raise taxes on private mining
   companies. And even that was watered down after 20,000 members of
   mining co-operatives marched on La Paz earlier this month.

   Vinto, officials claim, is a special case. "It's about righting a
   wrong," says Guillermo Dalence, the mining minister. "The plant was
   taken from the Bolivian people fraudulently and we are reclaiming it."

   The smelter has a controversial history. Built by a military
   government, it was privatised in 1999. The buyer was Allied Deals, a
   British outfit later liquidated after its directors were charged with
   fraud over an unrelated scam in the metals market.

   Allied Deals paid $27m for the smelter and the nearby Huanuni mine. In
   2002 its liquidator sold Vinto for $6m to a consortium headed by
   Comsur, a mining company owned by Gonzalo Snchez de Lozada, Bolivia's
   president from 1993-97. Mr Snchez de Lozada (known to Bolivians as
   Goni) was elected again in 2002, but was toppled a year later by
   protesters who included supporters of Mr Morales.

   Goni is a hate figure in Bolivia today. That is partly because 67
   people were killed when he called out the army against the protests in
   2003. The government is backing moves to extradite him from the United
   States to face a trial which the former president's lawyers say is
   politically motivated. But Goni is also hated because he oversaw the
   privatisations that Mr Morales is now trying to reverse.

   In 2005 Goni sold Comsur's Bolivian assets (which included several
   mines) to Glencore, a mining company based in Switzerland. The price
   was not disclosed, but it was said to be $220m, of which $90m was said
   to be for the smelter. According to one well-placed source, a
   side-letter required Comsur to repay Glencore in the case of
   nationalisation.

   Since the world tin price was very low when Vinto was privatised, and
   the smelter had lost money in state hands, it is far from clear that
   Bolivia was swindled. The tin price has since risen sharply, reaching
   its highest level since 1985 this week. So in addition to targeting
   Goni, the nationalisation may boost government revenues.

   Glencore is demanding compensation for the smelter. It says the
   seizure violates a 1991 bilateral investment treaty between Bolivia
   and Switzerland. The government says it, too, will seek compensation
   in any international arbitration. It claims that Glencore did not
   register the purchase in Bolivia and, somewhat improbably, that the
   smelter was worth $140m when it was privatised. "All foreign companies
   that operate within the legal framework have our guarantee that they
   won't be touched," says Mr Dalence. Investors may not be wholly
   reassured.


   The president enlists the literary critics


   ASK Chileans what they are reading and the answer will probably be
   Isabel Allende's "La Suma de los Das", a memoir by their country's
   best-known living writer. If, that is, they read anything at all: in a
   recent survey, 45% said they never read books and 34% did so only
   occasionally.

   Michelle Bachelet, Chile's president, wants to change that. To do so,
   she has come up with a scheme to give 400,000 of the poorest families
   a maletn literario or box of up to nine books each. After much
   pencil-chewing, a jury of literati this month selected a list of 49
   works, from which officials will then choose those books they think
   appropriate for each family (each will get an encyclopaedia and/or a
   dictionary).

   The list comprises fiction and poetry for both adults and children. It
   ranges from Chile's Ms Allende and Pablo Neruda to J.D. Salinger's
   "The Catcher in the Rye" and Franz Kafka's "Metamorphosis". This is
   unexceptionable fare. But is the book box the best way to achieve Ms
   Bachelet's laudable aim?

   It could help. While some older Chileans lack functional literacy or
   were alienated by a rigid school syllabus, younger ones may be
   deterred from buying books by their price. This averages $14, higher
   than the Latin American average and the equivalent of two weeks of bus
   fares to and from work in Santiago. If books were cheaper, more
   Chileans would read them: pirated copies sell on pavements, while a
   lending library that operates on the Santiago metro has been a big
   success. With massive orders, the government could force big discounts
   from publishers.

   But critics see the book box as a populist gesture. "It's like
   dropping bank notes out of the sky," complains Vernica Abud of La
   Fuente, a charity that promotes reading. "Who says that a plumber in a
   poor district of Santiago will actually want to read Kafka?" For less
   than the estimated $11m cost of the book box, La Fuente has set up 60
   libraries in schools and neighbourhoods. Since only 7% of Chileans
   belong to a library, there is scope for plenty more.


                                                                      EPA

                                    EPA

   After four years in which he transformed his country, lvaro Uribe is
   running into problems. Some of them are symptoms of success 


   ON THE outskirts of Mara la Baja, a nondescript town on Colombia's
   swelteringly hot Caribbean coast, the road is lined with palm-thatched
   mud huts. They are the new homes of some 7,000 people displaced by
   violence from their small farms in the nearby hills. They say that
   their problems began when the guerrillas of the Revolutionary Armed
   Forces of Colombia (FARC) appeared in the hills in 2000, stealing
   their cattle. Matters deteriorated further when right-wing
   paramilitaries began to kill people whom they thought were guerrillas
   and forced others to sell or yield their land at gunpoint.

   But in the past couple of years "things have improved a lot," says
   Carlos Ortiz, one of their leaders. The reason: on July 14th 2005, the
   local paramilitary group handed over its weapons and disbanded under a
   peace agreement with the government of President lvaro Uribe in which
   some 30,000 of the militiamen have demobilised across the country. As
   part of Mr Uribe's security build-up, marines have set up a base on
   the edge of the town, while police patrol the main road north to the
   port of Cartagena.

   "We go back to our farms by day now," says Julio Csar Azeredo,
   another of the displaced. But, he adds, "it's not safe to stay at
   night." If this corner of northern Colombia is no longer marked by the
   bloody massacres of a few years ago, its new-found peace is fragile.
   "The people have lost confidence in everyone, they don't trust any
   authority," says Giuseppe Svafrena, an Italian Catholic priest who is
   helping them.

   Fragile it may be, but the improvement in security in places like
   Mara la Baja is real enough. On the strength of it, Mr Uribe secured
   a second four-year term with a landslide 62% of the vote in an
   election last May. But his second term is proving to be more
   complicated than his first.

   Mr Uribe faces two immediate problems. One involves the future of the
   former paramilitaries, and the risk that many return to violent crime.
   The other involves their past: the government has been rocked by a
   series of revelations of links between politicians, officials and the
   paramilitaries. Those revelations (dubbed "parapolitics") risk doing
   serious damage to Mr Uribe's standing abroad, and especially in the
   United States. But for most Colombians the more pressing issue is
   consolidating the gains in security. In opinion polls some 70% of
   respondents continue to support Mr Uribe, despite the parapolitics
   scandal. To understand why requires some recent history.

   During the 1980s and 1990s, the left-wing guerrillas of the FARC and
   its smaller rival, the ELN, grew steadily, reaching a peak of almost
   20,000 troops. Their expansion owed much to money from drugs,
   kidnapping and extortion. They were also helped by Colombia's
   impossible geography and relatively weak state. The flip side of a
   long democratic tradition has been that Colombia's politicians never
   allowed the army to become strong.

   In response, some army commanders and landowners formed paramilitary
   militias (known as "self-defence" groups) to fight the guerrillas. Yet
   some of these were quickly taken over by drug-traffickers and many
   imposed a reign of terror equal to or worse than that of the
   guerrillas. Colombia began to look like a failed state. That prompted
   Andrs Pastrana, Mr Uribe's predecessor, to start to strengthen the
   security forces and to seek American aid.

   Mr Uribe was elected on a pledge to get tough after the FARC had shown
   no interest in peace in three years of talks with Mr Pastrana. He has
   expanded the security forces by a third, adding 60,000 troops and
   30,000 extra police. He placed permanent police detachments in 150
   municipalities (out of a total of 1,080) that lacked them. He created
   a new force of 20,000 part-time "popular soldiers" for local guard
   duties. Six new mountain battalions occupied the high Andean massifs
   which had served as corridors and refuges for the FARC. He turned the
   army into an offensive force, with nine new mobile brigades.

   All this changed the course of the war. The FARC were driven from
   central Colombia, from the populated triangle marked by its three main
   cities, Bogot, Medelln and Cali. For the first time in years,
   Colombians can drive between most of the country's cities without risk
   of kidnap or hold-up. Partly as a result, the economy has rebounded as
   businesses from oil companies to manufacturers ramp up investment (see
   chart). "My administration began the process of taking back the
   country," Mr Uribe says.

   This security build-up and Mr Uribe's reputation as an implacable foe
   of the guerrillas enabled his government to persuade the
   paramilitaries, grouped in the United Self-Defence Forces of Colombia
   (AUC), to disarm. They did so under a controversial Justice and Peace
   Law. This stipulates that those accused of massacres or other
   barbarous acts can benefit from a reduced sentence (of no more than
   eight years) if they confess and surrender illegally obtained assets.
   The biggest incentive is that the government will not extradite them
   to face drugs charges in the United States as long as they co-operate.

   This peace process has been highly controversial. One set of
   criticisms concerns its terms and another its implementation. Many
   human-rights groups, the paramilitaries' victims and much of the
   opposition considered the law too lenient and its application too lax.
   So did the Constitutional Court, which stiffened the law.

   Only last August were the top leaders jailed pending court hearings.
   Rafael Pardo, a Liberal senator who broke with the president over the
   law, says that he thinks the paramilitaries have demobilised their
   counter-insurgency apparatus and moved out of drugs to avoid
   extradition but are moving, unchecked, into other crime rackets.

   Double standards

   Mr Uribe's defenders argue that Colombia is doing something which no
   other country has managed. "It's a peace process with an undefeated
   military group in which justice is being applied with no amnesty,"
   says Eduardo Pizarro, who heads the government's reconciliation
   commission. Mr Uribe accuses his critics of double standards, since
   they never complained about (and some benefited from) past peace talks
   with guerrillas in which total amnesties were offered.

   But the process is certainly a messy one. The attorney-general's
   office--a branch of the judiciary rather than the executive in
   Colombia--has been swamped. A special unit of 35 attorneys has been
   set up, but it needs more staff and resources. Some 25,000 people have
   registered as victims of the paramilitaries. Mario Iguarn, the
   attorney-general, says that charges may eventually be brought against
   up to 400 of the leaders; he hopes to begin cases against 57 jailed
   chiefs this year.

   The government's scheme to integrate the former paramilitaries into
   civilian life has been flawed. They receive a monthly stipend of up to
   358,000 pesos ($162), but two-thirds of them have yet to receive
   promised training and only two-fifths have jobs. The government did
   the demobilisations "with a system which was only just being created
   and the system collapsed," says Frank Pearl, whom Mr Uribe recruited
   from the private sector last year to sort out the programme.

   The big fear is that many will return to violence. The best estimates
   are that between 2,500 and 3,600 have joined "second-generation"
   paramilitary groups. But officials say that some of these are
   drug-trafficking outfits or purely criminal bands.

   For all its flaws, Colombia's peace process has quickly acquired a
   momentum of its own. One of the strongest signs of that is the
   parapolitics scandal. This began when police arrested a paramilitary
   leader who had failed to rendezvous in a designated area, confiscating
   his computer. This contained a treasure trove of information
   concerning the political contacts of the paramilitaries, who once
   boasted that they controlled a third of Colombia's Congress.

   The revelations are an embarrassment to Mr Uribe. The ten politicians
   (nine legislators and a provincial governor) so far arrested, all from
   the north coast, belong to parties that support him. But most of the
   allegations against them date from 2002, when they backed the official
   Liberal candidate against Mr Uribe, who ran as an independent. More
   damaging is the arrest of Jorge Noguera, whom the president named to
   head the intelligence service.

   Mr Uribe's critics have seized on all this to argue that the president
   is in cahoots with the paramilitaries. But there is no evidence. The
   president counters that he has supported judicial investigations and
   full confessions by the paramilitaries. "The country needs to know in
   depth the tragedy...to realise what is the future we need: a country
   of institutions, without guerrillas, paramilitaries, drug-traffickers
   and corruption," he said in an interview with The Economist. If Mr
   Noguera is found guilty, Mr Uribe promises to apologise.

   That the parapolitics investigations have got so far is in part a
   result of greater security. "Witnesses are coming forward because they
   do not have to fear," says Mr Iguarn. "Who would have dared before to
   go to the district attorney or the judge and declare that the chief of
   the AUC was in league with the government, the mayor or a congressman?
   It's an unanticipated consequence of the Justice and Peace Law."

   It also shows how widespread penetration of politics and government by
   the paramilitaries was. Officials are quietly attempting a similar
   clean-up of the armed forces. A decorated colonel was charged before
   the civilian courts last year after subordinates said that he passed
   off murdered civilians as dead guerrillas. The defence minister, Juan
   Manuel Santos, is easing out other officers and working on reforms of
   military training. He says that control of territory, rather than
   bodycount, will henceforth be the army's performance criterion.

   Colombia is only at the beginning of a long and difficult road to
   peace. Cleaning up the army is a necessary condition for vanquishing
   the paramilitaries completely, argues Alejandro Reyes, a sociologist
   at Bogot's Rosario university. "Otherwise the civilian population
   won't collaborate with the security forces."

   Such collaboration is vital. The FARC are diminished but unbeaten.
   They think history is going their way: Hugo Chvez in Venezuela has
   expressed sympathy for them in the past; so has Rafael Correa,
   Ecuador's new president. It will take more fighting to persuade them
   to negotiate, let alone submit to the Justice and Peace Law.

   And parapolitics risks weakening Mr Uribe's grip on Congress. A tax
   reform that would have raised government revenues has been watered
   down. The government did manage to renew a wealth tax which should
   provide $4 billion over the next four years. That money will go into
   more helicopters, and surveillance gear to try to track down the FARC
   leadership.

   The other task is to achieve lasting security in places like Mara la
   Baja. There Pedro Vsquez, a former policeman who spent seven years as
   a paramilitary leader, says that townspeople still come to him to
   complain of crimes and extortion "because they don't trust the
   police". Some of his former troops want to return to action, something
   he doesn't want to do.

   Carlos Gaviria of the centre-left Democratic Pole, Mr Uribe's defeated
   opponent in last year's election, says more is needed than just the
   presence of the army. The state should be present, too, with "schools,
   hospitals and job-creation".

   Colombia's peace process has hitherto relied on the driving will of
   the president, a workaholic whose face is grey with permanent fatigue.
   Lacking are teamwork and institutions. Luis Alfonso Hoyos, who heads
   the president's social-development agency, points proudly to a
   situation-room next to his office where representatives from 13
   ministries co-ordinate policy and action. But that is in Bogot, a
   long way from places like Mara la Baja.


   Exporting medicine and influence

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

            A miracle of Cuban know-how and Venezuelan oil money


   IT MAY be the world's largest medical college. The Latin American
   School of Medical Science, on the western edge of Havana, has 10,000
   students, making it nearly ten times the size of its largest
   equivalent in the United States. The students are all foreigners: most
   are from elsewhere in Latin America, but they include 91 Americans.
   The school is one of several ways in which communist Cuba is using its
   medical prowess to win friends abroad.

   That prowess has been questioned by some of the regime's opponents
   because of unofficial reports that Fidel Castro, Cuba's president, has
   undergone three failed operations for diverticulitis (a swelling of
   the wall of the intestine). But there is as yet no reason to blame the
   president's doctors for his health problems.

   The medical school was founded in 1998. Only two classes have so far
   graduated from its six-year programme. Its buildings are not imposing;
   many of its students are dispersed on satellite campuses around Cuba.
   But tuition, accommodation and board are all free.

   The school is only one aspect of Cuba's commitment to exporting
   medicine. Another is the deployment of Cuban doctors overseas.
   Hundreds were sent to Central America in the aftermath of hurricanes
   and other natural disasters in the 1990s. More than 15,000 doctors and
   dentists are working for Hugo Chvez's government in Venezuela, in a
   Cuban-designed family-doctor programme. Others have been sent to
   Bolivia, to support Evo Morales's government, and to Ecuador. More may
   go to Nicaragua, and to Ecuador: both countries recently elected
   presidents friendly to Mr Castro. Farther afield, Pakistan's prime
   minister this month singled out Cuban doctors for their help after a
   2005 earthquake which killed some 74,000 people.

   In all, about one in three of Cuba's doctors is working abroad at any
   given time, according to Daniel Erikson of the Inter-American
   Dialogue, a think-tank in Washington, DC. At the same time, increasing
   numbers of foreigners are coming to Cuba for operations. This began as
   a foreign-exchange earner in the 1990s. More recently, Mr Chvez and
   Mr Castro set up "Operation Miracle", a scheme under which Venezuela
   pays for thousands of poor Latin Americans to undergo cataract and
   other eye operations in Cuba.

   This medical diplomacy brings Cuba clout abroad but it causes grumbles
   at home. Cuba has two and a half times as many doctors per head as the
   United States. Even so, with so many working abroad, some clinics in
   Havana are understaffed and others have closed. Drugs and medical
   equipment are in short supply in the island's hospitals, say the
   medical students. That is something that Mr Castro's successors may
   face pressure to redress.


   In our story about mining in Bolivia ("[3]Tin soldiers," February
   17th), we referred to the sale of assets by Comsur, a company owned by
   Gonzalo Snchez de Lozada, the country's former president, to
   Glencore. We quoted a source as saying that a side-letter required
   Comsur to repay Glencore in the case of nationalisation of the assets.
   This information was false. We apologise for this mistake.


                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   The president's wife seems certain to succeed him, but will she cool
   an overheating economy?


   ABROAD she is sometimes compared to Hillary Clinton. At home she likes
   to invoke Eva Pern. Either way, Cristina Fernndez de Kirchner seems
   certain to win Argentina's presidential election on October 28th, and
   thus to succeed her husband, Nstor Kirchner. If the polls are to be
   believed, she will win by a large enough margin to avoid the need for
   a run-off ballot (see chart 1).

   If so, she will become the first woman to be elected as Argentina's
   president. (Isabelita, Juan Pern's third wife and his vice-president,
   briefly succeeded her husband before being ousted by a military coup
   in 1976.) She likes to point out that she has been a senator since
   1995 and so was a national political figure when her husband was a
   mere provincial governor. But assuming she wins, she will owe her
   victory to his--or their--decision that he would not seek a second
   consecutive term and that she would run in his stead.

   Mr Kirchner has presided over Argentina's vigorous recovery from a
   horrendous economic, financial and political collapse in 2001-02.
   Thanks to four years of annual economic growth of over 8%, poverty and
   unemployment have halved since he took office in 2003 (see chart 2).
   For that, the president can take only some of the credit. He inherited
   a capable economy minister in Roberto Lavagna, who had put in place
   some coherent policies. Idle factories whirred back into action while
   world prices climbed for Argentina's farm exports.

   But Mr Kirchner's brutal treatment of holders of some $81 billion in
   bonds on which Argentina defaulted in 2001 ensured that debt payments
   did not become a drag on growth. He quelled a riotous movement of
   unemployed protesters with a mixture of handouts and diatribes against
   the IMF, big business and the privatisations conducted by Carlos
   Menem, a right-wing Peronist, in the 1990s.

   After winning control of Congress in a mid-term election in 2005, Mr
   Kirchner dumped the prudent Mr Lavagna. Since then, he has
   deliberately allowed the economy to overheat. Interest rates are
   negative in real terms, while the government has opened the fiscal tap
   (so far this year central-government current spending has risen by an
   eyepopping 48% in nominal terms). As a result, inflation is rising
   fast.

   The government has responded with price "agreements" (ie, controls)
   and blatant manipulation of the official inflation index. The real
   figure, suggested by the numbers published by two provinces, may be up
   to twice the official one (see chart 3). Similarly, Mr Kirchner's
   populist approach to energy--energy prices in Argentina are only 60%
   of those of its neighbours--has led to occasional shortages.
   Meanwhile, his government has been hit by several corruption scandals
   this year.

   Nevertheless, Mr Kirchner is still popular--more so than his wife. So
   why did he decline to stand for re-election himself and impose his
   wife as the Peronist candidate? He has never fully explained. Some
   opponents reckon that his intention is to return in four years' time,
   thus prolonging the family hold on power. Insiders say that he
   believes that Ms Fernndez's skills are better suited than his own to
   the tasks now facing the country. "She can sit down and bargain
   without having been the person who screwed over anyone," says an
   official who is close to her.

   Ms Fernndez has given little away about her intentions. She has
   maintained a big lead in the opinion polls while doing little
   campaigning. Like Mr Kirchner, she does not submit to press
   conferences or interviews by Argentine journalists. She has spent much
   of the past few months travelling abroad--something her husband has
   done very little. She has unveiled few policy plans and held few
   rallies.

   But she is a better public speaker than Mr Kirchner, feisty and
   articulate where he is awkward and uncommunicative. "I identify with
   the Eva Pern who clenched her fist at the microphone, not with
   the...good fairy who arrived with Pern to hand out work and [women's]
   right to vote," she told El Pas, a Spanish newspaper. But some
   Argentines say she lacks the common touch of the always-remembered
   Evita. Of middle-class background, Ms Fernndez and Mr Kirchner met at
   university, and worked as property lawyers in Santa Cruz, the
   Patagonian province of which he became governor. Nowadays Ms Fernndez
   sports designer handbags, trademark white suits and, it is said
   snidely, collagen-enhanced lips.

   That she has not been pressed harder in the campaign says much about
   the hapless opposition. The Radical party, the traditional opposition
   to the dominant Peronists, had the misfortune to hold (and lose) power
   during the economic collapse of 2001. Even though they were
   implementing Mr Menem's policies, Argentines blamed the Radicals
   rather than the Peronists for the debacle. The party has shrunk and
   splintered: Julio Cobos, a Radical who is governor of Mendoza
   province, is Ms Fernndez's running mate.

   Her main rivals are Mr Lavagna, who presents himself as an
   "alternative" to (rather than an opponent of) the Kirchners, and Elisa
   Carri, a former Radical who offers little except a campaign against
   corruption. Several others have struggled to break into double figures
   in the polls.

   Ms Fernndez not only basks in her husband's popularity. She enjoys
   some of the advantages of incumbency. She has use of the presidential
   jet and friendly coverage on state television. Her opponents say they
   have had trouble raising money because some would-be donors have held
   back for fear of a punitive tax audit. The opposition's divisions also
   help her: she can avoid a run-off provided she gets 40% of the valid
   votes and leads her closest rival by ten points.

   Assuming she wins, will Ms Fernndez's policies differ from those of
   her husband? Her political views, like Mr Kirchner's, were forged in
   the Peronist left of the 1970s: nationalism, a sizeable state role in
   the economy and hostility to the armed forces. But aides point to
   differences of emphasis and experience. Ms Fernndez has been her
   husband's de facto floor leader in Congress over the past four years.
   Unlike him, she is a negotiator, they say.

   While Mr Kirchner's opponents accuse him of autocratic tendencies, Ms
   Fernndez's defenders present her as a champion of democratic
   institutions. On that, however, there are disagreements. She
   championed bills to give the presidency control over judicial
   appointments, and to reallocate congressionally-mandated spending at
   will. Yet she also supported moves to reform the Supreme Court that
   have the backing of NGOs.

   The clearest difference is in foreign policy. Mr Kirchner showed no
   interest in it, beyond an alliance with Venezuela's Hugo Chvez, whose
   government has bought some $5 billion in Argentine bonds and has
   swapped diesel fuel for farm machinery and other products. On her
   trips abroad, Ms Fernndez has courted businessmen. She is likely to
   seek better relations with the United States and Europe, but without
   breaking with Mr Chvez. She has said she plans to renegotiate the $7
   billion that Argentina owes the Paris Club of rich-country
   lenders--but rejects the club's requirement that the IMF be involved.
   It is not clear whether she would seek to ease Argentina's access to
   world financial markets by reaching a deal with the holders of bonds
   (worth $20 billion at face value) who did not accept the debt
   restructuring.

   One big doubt is whether she will take the steps, eschewed by Mr
   Kirchner, needed to engineer a soft landing for the economy. Once
   inflation exceeds 20% and energy rationing reaches homes, Argentines
   will surely demand solutions to these problems. But these involve
   unpopular measures for which the public has not been prepared. If
   inflation is to be curbed, rather than covered-up, interest rates will
   have to rise, the growth of public spending will need to be checked,
   and the peso be allowed to appreciate. Energy tariffs will have to
   rise, some of them steeply.

   A second doubt concerns Mr Kirchner's role--assuming it is his wife to
   whom he passes the presidential sash on December 10th. He has vowed to
   remain in politics; although Peronism is a mosaic of warring factions,
   he controls its most powerful political machine. So Argentines will be
   in little doubt that if they vote for Ms Fernndez they will be
   getting two Kirchners for the price of one--a somewhat inflated price,
   opponents would doubtless say.


                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   Much though Evo Morales (left) might want to be another Hugo Chvez,
   he will not find it easy 


   WHEN FIFA, the body that governs world football, decreed last month
   that international matches could not be played at altitudes above
   2,500 metres (8,200 feet), Evo Morales must have been delighted. For
   once, Bolivia's president could apply his genius for political gesture
   to an issue that does not divide his countrymen. Mr Morales, a keen
   footballer, turned out for a few impromptu matches in La Paz's
   national stadium (altitude: 3,600 metres), cheered on by nearly all of
   Bolivia's 9m people. They see the FIFA ruling, which cites health
   worries, as an attack on their competitive advantage.

   Many of Mr Morales's gestures in the 17 months since he took office as
   Bolivia's first-ever elected president of Andean Indian descent have
   been more divisive. His most popular policy, the nationalisation of
   oil and gas, has irritated foreign governments and investors. The
   "democratic revolution" he promises--a transfer of wealth and power
   from Bolivia's white and mestizo (mixed race) elite to the mainly
   Andean Indian poor--alarms the prosperous eastern provinces. He calls
   the media the "main adversary" of his government and wants to hold
   them accountable to the people. On June 5th the judiciary staged a
   one-day strike to counter a presidential assault on its independence.

   In short, his opponents fear that Mr Morales is leading Bolivia down
   the path that his close friend, Hugo Chvez, has taken Venezuela: one
   of "21st-century socialism" and a presidential monopoly of power.
   "Chvez owns the Bolivian government," says Jorge Quiroga, the leader
   of the opposition Podemos party.

   Mr Chvez is clearly an ally and an inspiration for Mr Morales, but
   does that make him a model? His advisers insist not. "It's a mistake
   to think that Morales is a copy of Chvez," says Pablo Soln, the
   government's foreign-trade envoy.

   There are three reasons to think he may be right, none of which assume
   that Mr Morales would not enjoy wielding absolute power. First, while
   Mr Chvez is a former army officer who came to national prominence by
   leading a failed military coup, Mr Morales is the leader of a
   coca-growers' union and of a coalition of radical "social movements"
   whose protests brought down two previous governments. Mr Morales is
   now their unchallenged leader, but they will resist the idea that all
   change should come from the top down.

   Second, Mr Morales confronts powerful regions headed by elected
   governors opposed to his plan to "refound" Bolivia. Finally, although
   natural gas has been a bonanza, its revenues are far more modest than
   Venezuela's oil billions. Bolivia cannot generate enough growth and
   jobs without private and foreign investment. In short, Venezuela is a
   one-man show but governing Bolivia demands alliances.

   Mr Morales himself seems unsure of where he is heading. His ready
   acceptance of Venezuelan patronage and his raids on independent
   institutions feed suspicions. In April 2006 Mr Morales signed up to Mr
   Chvez's "Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas", a managed-trade
   agreement and anti-American alliance also involving Cuba. Venezuelan
   aid has poured in. It pays for scholarships, a campaign to distribute
   identity cards and the cheques that Mr Morales hands out to mayors for
   local development in the Altiplano, Bolivia's vast western plateau.
   More aid is promised for a network of community radio stations and the
   upgrading of the main state television station.

   Mr Morales also has Mr Chvez's penchant for subverting rival centres
   of power, but perhaps less talent for it. Take the latest clash with
   the judiciary. This began when the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that
   four Supreme-Court justices temporarily appointed by the president
   should yield their seats. Mr Morales called for the tribunal's
   impeachment. The judiciary staged its first-ever strike to resist the
   government's attempt to "throw out the Bolivian judicial system and
   implant a totalitarian regime," said a statement by the Supreme Court.

   In January Mr Morales's supporters tried to unseat the governor of
   Cochabamba, the country's third most-populous province, for proposing
   a referendum on autonomy. Three people died in violent clashes. The
   incident pushed the governor closer to the four opposition-led eastern
   regions that had already backed autonomy in a 2005 referendum.

   These skirmishes are part of an improvised revolution with uncertain
   aims. The vice-president, lvaro Garca Linera, recently called for a
   "broadening of elites" and "room for both capitalist and
   post-capitalist development". What opponents see as an assault on
   democracy, the government sees as purging vestiges of
   "anti-democratic" tendencies.

   Greater clarity should soon come from a constituent assembly that is
   writing a new constitution (another device used by Mr Chvez to
   consolidate his power). Mr Morales's Movement to Socialism (MAS)
   proposes to redefine Bolivia as a "unitary, pluri-national,
   communitarian" state that gives pride of place to three dozen
   indigenous "nations". These groups would control territory and natural
   resources and would be represented as communities in a single-chamber
   legislature alongside individual citizens. Private enterprise would be
   protected when it "contributes to economic and socio-cultural
   development". A fourth "social power" would oversee the traditional
   three.

   This smacks of corporatism, not democracy. The opposition objects to
   dividing Bolivia ethnically, and to the abolition of the Senate, where
   small provinces have political weight. The MAS has a majority in the
   assembly but not the two-thirds required to approve a new
   constitutional text. Samuel Doria Medina, the leader of a centrist
   opposition party, thinks compromise is possible. Indigenous "nations",
   for example, could become wispier "nationalities", he says.

   In some moods the government seems open to compromise. "We don't want
   a constitution approved by 60 or 70% of the country but rejected by
   the rest," said Mr Garca Linera. The final text, due by August 6th,
   will be subject to a referendum and then to interpretation by the
   courts, which Mr Morales does not yet control. What he may really be
   angling for is an end to the current rule that bars presidents from
   consecutive terms, so that he could run for re-election under the new
   constitution next year and again in 2013. In return, he would accept
   the opposition's demands for regional autonomy, says Carlos Toranzo, a
   political analyst.

   Such deal-making would not be out of character. In January, Mr Morales
   dropped a campaign for the assembly to approve constitutional articles
   by simple majority after this provoked huge protests in the eastern
   regions. With the United States, he has arranged a wary, and perhaps
   temporary, truce. Some 40,000 jobs, mainly in the poor western
   highlands, depend directly on American trade concessions, now up for
   renewal. The United States, eager to avoid rupture, is overlooking Mr
   Morales's enthusiasm for coca, the raw material for cocaine. Recently,
   he joined the American ambassador to open a newly-illuminated road
   tunnel-- something it is hard to imagine Mr Chvez doing.

   But charging ahead when he can, and retreating when he must, is not a
   strategy for governance. The inexperienced, often inept, government
   has achieved little beyond boosting ethnic and national pride, and gas
   royalties. Bolivia is enjoying multiple windfalls, from high commodity
   prices to remittances and debt forgiveness. Even so, the economy grew
   less than the Latin American average last year, points out Gonzalo
   Chvez of the Catholic University in La Paz. More than half the
   population is poor, four-fifths of workers labour in the informal
   economy and emigration continues. Mining and gas apart, private
   investment is a negligible 2-3% of GDP. Yet in April Bolivia said it
   would withdraw from an international arbitration panel that investors
   use to resolve disputes. If he does not create good jobs, no amount of
   constitutional gimmickry will sustain Mr Morales's current popularity.


   Covering up a death has got harder


   FOR the past few weeks Miami has been gripped by rumours that Fidel
   Castro, Cuba's sick communist president, may be dead. One factor
   fuelling the fire is that Cuban officials insist that his health is a
   state secret, though they also say he continues to recover from
   intestinal surgery. Another is that no new images of Mr Castro were
   issued on his 81st birthday last month. Then there is the deep-rooted
   belief among his opponents that the death of the Lder Mximo will be
   covered up.

   It would not be the first time. El Cid, Spain's quasi-fictional hero
   of the Reconquista, is alleged to have carried on fighting after his
   death, his body strapped to his horse to terrify his Moorish
   opponents. China's first emperor, Qin Shi Huang, died on a journey in
   210BC, but the news was kept quiet for two months until his entourage
   had safely returned to the capital. The death of Edward VI, a young
   English king, was disguised during several days of scheming over his
   succession. Tibetan leaders managed to hide the death of the fifth
   Dalai Lama for no fewer than 15 years.

   But cover-ups have got much harder. Not even the sudden and
   destabilising death of Joseph Stalin or the expected demises of Josip
   Broz Tito, Leonid Brezhnev or Kim Il Sung were hushed up for long. To
   hide the death of a dictator, one of his sidekicks needs to have both
   privileged access to information and the strength to suppress its
   leakage. But any such person is an obvious successor and thus has
   little interest in concealment.

   Nonsense, say the conspiracy theorists in Miami. They point to the
   cases of Spain's General Francisco Franco and Mao Zedong, both of
   whose deaths were revealed on suspiciously symbolic dates (the
   anniversary of Japan's surrender to China, in Mao's case). So just
   before October 10th, the date of Cuba's declaration of independence
   from Spain in 1868, expect another wave of rumours in Miami that Mr
   Castro has passed away.


   Nstor Kirchner's unusual alliance


   THE best-defended building in the centre of Buenos Aires is not a bank
   or a barracks. It is the headquarters of AMIA, a Jewish cultural
   centre. Security guards require government-issued identification of
   all visitors, who must then pass through a pair of thick metal doors.
   The reason: in 1994 AMIA was hit by a car bomb that killed 85 people.

   Nobody has yet been convicted of the outrage. In 2003 Britain detained
   Iran's former ambassador to Buenos Aires, whom Argentina accused of
   helping the bombers. But he was released for lack of evidence (as were
   five local suspects). Last year an Argentine court formally requested
   the extradition of eight former Iranian officials.

   Argentina's Jewish community, the largest in Latin America, has found
   a somewhat unlikely ally in Nstor Kirchner, the country's left-wing
   president. His Peronist party long had an anti-Semitic streak: its
   founder, Juan Pern, blocked Jewish migration to Argentina and gave
   refuge to scores of Nazi leaders after the second world war.

   But Mr Kirchner has gone out of his way to court Argentine Jews. He
   has created a special commission to re-investigate the AMIA case. He
   meets Jewish leaders around five times a year; his wife, Cristina
   Fernndez, who is expected to succeed him in the presidency after an
   election on October 28th, visited Israel in 2005.

   Mr Kirchner has also backed moves to try crimes committed by the army
   during its "dirty war" against leftist guerrillas in the 1970s.
   Although Jews make up just 1% of the population they account for 8% of
   those who "disappeared" in that period. On October 9th Christian von
   Wernich, a Catholic priest, was sentenced to life imprisonment for
   complicity in murder, torture and kidnapping. One of those who was
   tortured in his presence was Jacobo Timerman, a prominent Jewish
   newspaper editor.

   Mr Kirchner devoted much of his speech at the UN last month to
   criticising Iran's failure to extradite the suspected officials. In
   this, he seems to be trying to offset his alliance with Venezuela's
   Hugo Chvez, who is friendly with Iran. Although her husband's
   relations with George Bush have been strained, Ms Fernndez may reckon
   that a shared dislike of Iran will bring closer ties with the next
   American president.


   A case of double standards

   HIS enemies call Luis Posada Carriles the "bin Laden of the Americas".
   His release from a New Mexico jail on April 19th has sparked
   accusations of inconsistency in President George Bush's "war on
   terror". They accuse Mr Posada, an elderly Cuban exile, of one of the
   most notorious crimes in recent Latin American history: the bombing of
   a Cuban airliner off Barbados in 1976 in which all 73 people on board
   died. Mr Posada, who has Venezuelan citizenship, was charged with the
   bombing in his adopted country. Venezuela's courts consider him a
   fugitive after he escaped from jail in 1985 while awaiting trial.

   Both Cuba and Venezuela want the United States to extradite Mr Posada.
   His lawyers argue that he would face torture in either country. But he
   is unlikely to enjoy the comfort of his home in Miami for very long.
   He was released on bail pending trial on May 11th in Texas on seven
   counts of immigration fraud and lying about his illegal entry into the
   country. If convicted, he could face up to 40 years in jail. Since he
   is 79 and frail, any substantial jail sentence might in practice be
   for life.

   The Justice Department claims it did everything it could to dissuade
   the judge from ordering Mr Posada's release. "We can't just
   unilaterally order a person to be held," a spokesman said. But critics
   point out that the government frequently does just that under the
   anti-terrorist Patriot Act.

   Why has this not been used against Mr Posada? In court papers,
   prosecutors describe him as "an unrepentant criminal and admitted
   mastermind of terrorist plots". But Mr Posada spent much of the cold
   war working with the Central Intelligence Agency. He took part in the
   Bay of Pigs, the CIA's failed attempt to invade Fidel Castro's Cuba in
   1961. He later helped to smuggle arms to anti-communist rebels in
   Nicaragua.

   Mr Posada also boasted of organising several small bombs in Cuban
   hotels in 1997, one of which killed an Italian tourist (he later
   retracted this claim). Three years later Cuba accused him of plotting
   to assassinate Mr Castro at a summit in Panama. He was jailed, but
   subsequently pardoned.

   Prosecutors say that he lied about how he returned to the United
   States in 2005 in order to protect fellow Cuban exiles in Miami who
   helped smuggle him in by boat. That may prove to be his undoing. But
   the failure to extradite him may make other countries warier of
   collaborating with American justice.


   Development bankers face growing competition

   IT IS the strange fate of the World Bank to unite enemies on the left
   and right. While Hugo Chvez, Venezuela's leftist president, wants the
   bank out of his backyard, its conservative critics think it should let
   go of most of its Latin American clients, who they say are now much
   better served by private capital.

   Only a handful of countries in the region are poor enough to qualify
   for the bank's soft loans and handouts. The rest borrow from its
   money-making arm, the International Bank for Reconstruction and
   Development (IBRD). This had $36.3 billion of loans to the region on
   its books at the end of the last fiscal year.

   Latin America is where the bank makes much of its money. It earned
   $1.7 billion in interest and fees last year, 36% of the total. But
   demand for its loans is wavering (see chart). As the cost of borrowing
   in the capital markets has fallen, both the World Bank and its
   regional equivalent, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), find
   it harder to compete on price.

   Moreover, private creditors do not care how their money is used, as
   long as it is repaid. The World Bank is more particular. For example,
   the projects it backs must take pains not to despoil the environment
   unduly or uproot indigenous peoples unfairly.

   Rather than surrendering its best customers to private creditors, the
   bank wants to price its loans more keenly and make borrowing less
   cumbersome, using a country's own auditing and procurement methods
   wherever they are up to scratch.

   The IDB, which has escaped Mr Chvez's ire, faces a similar challenge.
   "We have to reinvent ourselves," says its president, Luis Alberto
   Moreno. He says that one way the bank is doing so is by lending to
   state and local governments who lack the sovereign guarantee needed to
   borrow cheaply in markets. It is also focusing on infrastructure
   projects such as water, sewerage and rural electricity, as well as
   microfinance schemes.

   Both banks are also looking at regionwide projects, which are more
   complicated to finance commercially. The World Bank has a
   tele-medicine network, which conveys medical findings in the United
   States to hospitals in the farther reaches of Latin America. Both also
   stress that their loans come with valuable technical advice. Critics
   say they should do more to separate the two.

   Mr Chvez portrays the World Bank as a domineering patron, imposing
   its beliefs on any nation that takes its coin. It would be more
   accurate to describe it as a fading brand, anxious to serve its
   customers better in a newly crowded marketplace.


   The imbroglio over a cash-stuffed suitcase

                                                                      EPA
                                                                      EPA

                                   The Kirchners and their wealthy friend


   WHEN Cristina Fernndez replaced her husband, Nstor Kirchner, as
   Argentina's president on December 10th, she hinted that she would
   improve her country's strained relations with the United States. But
   exactly a week later a prosecutor in Miami accused five men of trying
   to cover up an alleged effort to funnel Venezuelan cash to Ms
   Fernndez's election campaign. The president promptly accused the
   United States government of mounting "a garbage operation" against
   her. With the only two of the five so far indicted pleading not guilty
   on December 27th, the stage seems set for months of revelations--and
   bad blood.

   At the centre of this tangle is Guido Antonini Wilson, a Venezuelan
   businessman who also has an American passport and who lives in Key
   Biscayne, a wealthy Miami enclave. Last August Mr Antonini arrived in
   Buenos Aires from Caracas on a private jet chartered by Argentina's
   state energy company, clutching a suitcase with $800,000 in cash which
   he had failed to declare. Customs officials confiscated the cash but
   let Mr Antonini go. When the story reached the Argentine papers, Mr
   Kirchner sacked Claudio Uberti, his unofficial envoy to Caracas who
   was also on the plane, as were officials from PDVSA, Venezuela's state
   oil company.

   Thereafter the five accused--four Venezuelans and a Uruguayan--met Mr
   Antonini several times in Miami. According to the American Justice
   Department, they tried through threats and the offer of $2m to
   persuade him not to reveal that the cash came from the Venezuelan
   government and, prosecutors claim, was intended for Ms Fernandez's
   campaign. These conversations were recorded secretly by Mr Antonini,
   who was co-operating with the FBI, and are alleged to have included
   several phone calls with officials in Venezuela's secret police. The
   Justice Department has charged the five with operating illegally as
   Venezuelan government agents. Of that there is no proof, says Ed
   Shohat, a defence lawyer. They were merely offering friendly advice to
   Mr Antonini, he said.

   Argentine officials claim that the whole case is a CIA fabrication and
   a reprisal for the Kirchners' ties to Venezuela's left-wing president,
   Hugo Chvez. Mr Kirchner demanded that the Americans send Mr Antonini
   to Argentina to face justice there. But that begs the question as to
   why the Argentine government allowed him to leave in August, and had
   shown no subsequent interest in investigating him. Mr Uberti's former
   secretary told an Argentine judge last month that she saw Mr Antonini
   at a reception at the presidential palace two days after the cash was
   discovered.

   Mr Kirchner's government forged an alliance of convenience with Mr
   Chvez. Since 2005 Venezuela has bought $5 billion of Argentine bonds,
   most of which it has passed on to friendly local banks at a steep
   discount; it has sold Argentina diesel fuel under special arrangements
   that include the purchase of Argentine products from providers
   selected by the governments without competitive tenders.

   American officials have long been searching for evidence to back up
   their claims that Mr Chvez is using Venezuelan oil wealth to fund
   political allies across Latin America. The case may establish whether
   they have now found convincing proof of that. It has already shone
   light on the extravagant lifestyle of a small group of wealthy
   Venezuelan expatriates in Florida with close business ties to Mr
   Chvez's government, of which both Mr Antonini and the accused formed
   part. One of the defendants, Franklin Durn, drives a Ferrari; in
   partnership with another, he owns a petrochemical firm which has
   contracts with PDVSA.

   After her initial outburst, Ms Fernndez herself has kept quiet about
   the case. But her government has restricted contacts with the American
   ambassador in Buenos Aires. She is playing to a public that is more
   anti-American than any other south of the Rio Grande. As Joaqun
   Morales Sol, a political analyst, puts it, the Argentine
   predisposition "is to look for a conspiracy, to see captive courts [in
   the United States] because Argentina has them. It's a mixture of
   narcissism and naivety."


   Arguments over price controls


   ON THE last Saturday in March the broad Avenida Bolvar in the heart
   of Venezuela's capital was transformed into an open-air,
   government-run "mega-market". Shoppers, mainly from poorer parts of
   the city, formed orderly queues to buy food at officially regulated
   prices--something that is often impossible in ordinary shops. "How can
   there be scarcity in a country with so much land and resources?" asked
   Ramn Daz, a pensioner, as he rested on a bench after doing his
   shopping. "Who controls the supply of meat? The oligarchy has it
   monopolised."

   Who controls the food supply and why a fertile and oil-rich country
   should have problems getting food to its 27m people are questions that
   pit the leftist government of Hugo Chvez against much of the private
   sector. Venezuela has one of the world's highest inflation rates (see
   chart). Food prices are rising even faster than the overall index.
   That is despite--or because of--the fact that food, medicines and
   basic services have been subject to price controls since 2003. Meat,
   milk, black beans and sugar are among many products that, from time to
   time, disappear from the shelves--even those of Mercal, the
   government-run supermarket chain. Often, though, these goods can be
   found at much higher prices in the hands of street traders.

   The government has a simple answer to the conundrum. "It's part of the
   curse of capitalism," according to Mr Chvez. In February he declared
   war on "hoarders and speculators", issuing a decree mandating jail
   sentences of up to six years for anyone interfering with food
   supplies. The government promptly seized a slaughterhouse and a
   cold-store.

   Many businessmen and shopkeepers have a different view. They complain
   that controlled prices are set so low that they are obliged to sell at
   a loss. If they don't, they risk fines, temporary closure,
   expropriation or even imprisonment. In late March, for instance, the
   government temporarily closed 17 butchers' shops it accused of
   breaking price regulations. Mr Chvez has said that if he has to take
   over the entire food industry he will, although many Venezuelans doubt
   the government would be capable of running it.

   Officials usually say that the problem is hoarding, not shortages. But
   Jorge Giordani, the planning minister, recently admitted that an
   overheating economy (it grew by over 10% last year) was causing
   inflation and scarcity. Public spending has doubled in the past two
   years. There are two other factors, says Pavel Gmez of IESA, a
   Caracas business school: the price controls themselves, which have
   boosted demand and cut supply, and an expectation that prices will
   rise further, leading people to bring forward purchases.

   To make matters worse, the government recently curbed imports,
   ostensibly to protect local manufacturers. Some of them now complain
   that they cannot obtain the materials they need to make their
   products. Many businessmen are reluctant to invest, citing uncertainty
   over Mr Chvez's intentions and lack of legal protection. In which
   case, say government supporters, the state should step into the
   breach. Expect more shortages.


   Bachelet picks a new strongman


   WHEN she took office as Chile's president almost two years ago,
   Michelle Bachelet promised to be a different kind of politician, one
   who would lead a "citizens' democracy". Her first cabinet contained
   only two members with previous ministerial experience; half of its
   members were women and several were independents. Three reshuffles
   later, on January 8th, Ms Bachelet unveiled her latest team, one
   stuffed with seasoned party figures.

   That smacks of near-desperation. Broadly speaking, Chile remains a
   success story. Ms Bachelet has some achievements, such as an agreement
   on education reform, new child-care centres and wider health care. But
   she is much less popular than she was, and her government has found it
   hard to shake off a sense of drift.

   The economy no longer outperforms its neighbours, despite record
   copper revenues. High energy prices--Chile imports almost all its oil
   and gas--have contributed to a blip in inflation. A new transport
   scheme in Santiago, designed under her predecessor, has brought misery
   for commuters. Not all of this is the president's fault. But she has
   been both hesitant and meddling, and has often allowed a small cabal
   of personal advisers to overrule and undermine ministers.

   The reshuffle is a fresh start, she said. But it was a clumsy one.
   After weeks of delay, her hand was forced by the sudden resignation of
   her interior minister. His replacement, Edmundo Prez Yoma, is a
   plain-speaking and experienced Christian Democrat who as defence
   minister in the 1990s oversaw the departure as army commander of
   General Augusto Pinochet, the former dictator. He is expected to act
   as a de facto prime minister--if the president lets him. The changes
   weaken the position of Andrs Velasco, the ultra-orthodox finance
   minister, several of whose protgs have lost their jobs. Mr Prez
   Yoma criticised him last year for lacking "imagination and boldness".

   The reshuffle is in part an attempt to shore up Soledad Alvear, the
   leader of the Christian Democrats (DC), one of three main parties in
   the centre-left Concertacin coalition, which has ruled Chile since
   the return of democracy in 1990. The DC suffered a serious split last
   month, when supporters of Ms Alvear, who is a potential presidential
   candidate, expelled Adolfo Zaldvar, a senator who led the party's
   right wing. Several of his senior followers departed too. As a result,
   the Concertacin has lost its majority in Congress.

   It has also lost much of its discipline and energy. Municipal
   elections are due in October, which in turn will mark the start of
   campaigning for the next presidential election in December 2009.
   Although the right has not won a presidential vote in Chile for half a
   century, many in the Concertacin fear that after almost two decades
   in power their time is nearly up. The risk for Ms Bachelet and Mr
   Prez Yoma is that this defeatism could become self-fulfilling. They
   have their work cut out.


   President Torrijos's grip is beginning to falter

   PANAMA'S president, Martn Torrijos, is said to have been elected in
   May 2004 for two reasons: his promise to tackle vested interests and
   his genes. His father, General Omar Torrijos, a former dictator, is
   revered as the man who won back the Panama Canal from the Americans.
   Hitherto, this had given Mr Torrijos the clout to persuade the ruling
   centre-left Democratic Revolutionary Party (PRD), founded by his
   father, to accept much-needed economic reforms. But his grip may now
   be faltering.

   As president, Mr Torrijos has overhauled the deficit-ridden
   social-security system, and seen off opposition from anti-globalisers
   to a $5.25 billion project to widen the canal. He has also negotiated
   a free-trade treaty with the United States. But this has not yet been
   ratified by Washington--for a reason that reveals the continuing
   strength of the PRD's nationalist left-wing.

   The United States is refusing to ratify the deal so long as Pedro
   Miguel Gonzlez, a PRD member, remains president of Panama's National
   Assembly. He is wanted by America for the murder of an American army
   sergeant in 1992, three years after the American invasion of Panama,
   when the country's dictator, Manuel Antonio Noriega, was toppled. He
   had been backed by the PRD.

   Mr Torrijos has made private appeals to his party to get Mr Gonzlez
   to step aside before the latter's term ends in September. But he seems
   unwilling to risk a public confrontation with the PRD's nationalistic
   wing or the country at large. By delaying the possibility of
   ratification until shortly before the American presidential election,
   he risks killing the deal. Many business leaders are appalled.

   The president has other troubles, too. Inflation has edged up,
   prompting a rash of wage demands and public-sector strikes. Under the
   constitution, he cannot stand for a second term. He may not have much
   say about who will succeed him as president either. Elections are due
   in 2009. Balbina Herrera, housing minister and standard-bearer of the
   PRD's left wing, is currently in the lead. The opposition is fractured
   and compromised by its business ties. Although the economy is booming,
   Mr Torrijos may find that vested interests end up proving stronger
   than the appeal of genes.


   A new cell for an old dictator

   THE deposing of Manuel Noriega by American forces nearly two decades
   ago was an affair to remember. Paratroopers seized Panama's airfields.
   Mr Noriega holed up in the Vatican embassy. He eventually surrendered
   on January 3rd 1990. The invasion had been triggered by his indictment
   for drug trafficking, for which he was duly convicted by American
   courts.

   On September 9th this year the former dictator finished serving 15
   years in Miami. Having been accorded prisoner-of-war status, he was
   able to live in relative comfort; his cell had exercise equipment, a
   phone and a television. On finishing his sentence, he had been
   expected to return home, where he has been convicted of complicity in
   the 1985 murder of a political opponent.

   But the government of Martn Torrijos seems hesitant to accept him.
   This President Torrijos is the son of Omar Torrijos, who ruled from
   1968 to 1981 and was Mr Noriega's mentor. Though the government has
   called for his extradition, many suspect that Mr Torrijos is happy to
   see the former dictator sent to France, where he was convicted in 1999
   on money-laundering charges. Mr Torrijos is a member of the
   Revolutionary Democratic Party (PRD), as was Mr Noriega; the
   newly-elected PRD speaker of the National Assembly is himself wanted
   by America on murder charges. Critics of Mr Torrijos say he would
   rather avoid the difficult questions that would be bound to be raised
   by Mr Noriega's return.

   France has promised to allow the former dictator to continue to be
   treated as a prisoner of war. This clears the way for American courts
   to reject a series of appeals by his lawyers. He faces a ten-year term
   in France, making it possible that he will die before returning home.
   Were he to go first to Panama, he could not be sent to France, as
   Panama's constitution prohibits the extradition of its citizens. For
   the moment Mr Noriega remains in his cell in Miami, awaiting a final
   decision. As soon as Condoleezza Rice, America's secretary of state,
   signs a letter of extradition, he will be sent to Paris.

   Mr Noriega is a nasty piece of work, but it took a while before his
   foreign mentors found it expedient to take notice. For many years he
   was a CIA asset. In 1987 France gave him the Lgion d'honneur. Maybe
   he can wear it in jail.


   The IMF can sleep easy


   DREAMT up by Venezuela's Hugo Chvez as an alternative to the wicked
   World Bank and the even more wicked IMF, the Banco del Sur (Bank of
   the South), which seven South American governments signed up to on
   December 9th, flatters to deceive. Despite months of talks, there is
   still no agreement on its capital or its statutes. Rather than a
   gesture of defiance, the bank looks like an object lesson in why South
   American unity is so hard.

   Mr Chvez conceived it as a political tool of his "Bolivarian
   revolution", to free other countries in the region from the yoke of
   the Bretton Woods institutions. "If we hand it over to the tcnicos,
   then it is already dead," he said in August. He offered to donate to
   it up to half of Venezuela's foreign-exchange reserves of $30 billion.
   This week Venezuelan officials said that they would invite African
   countries to join.

   Such technocrats are exactly the people Brazil insists should staff
   the bank--if it must be staffed at all. Brazilian diplomats have been
   unusually frank in revealing their lack of enthusiasm for the new
   institution. They fear it may give soft, politically driven loans that
   go unpaid. Brazil already has its own well-endowed development bank,
   the BNDES, whose lending of 62.5 billion reais ($37 billion) in the 12
   months to September was 50% greater than that of the World Bank in the
   same period.

   The Brazilians have gone along with the project only because they feel
   they cannot remain outside any new South American institution,
   especially one with money. But they have worked to limit the bank's
   remit and to slow its creation.

   Mr Chvez can count on the vote of Bolivia and maybe that of Ecuador
   on the bank's board. But other members are likely to side with
   Brazil--and so will Chile, Colombia and Peru if they join. So expect a
   modest outfit that mainly finances cross-border infrastructure. The
   World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (not to speak of
   the Andean Development Corporation) do that already. But competition
   is a fine thing--even if it is not what Mr Chvez had in mind.


   A precarious arrangement is at risk


   TWO years ago President lvaro Uribe promulgated a controversial law
   to regulate the demobilisation of some 31,000 members of the
   right-wing paramilitary groups who for years fought left-wing
   guerrillas by inflicting a reign of terror in the Colombian
   countryside. The law pardoned the rank-and-file fighters while
   offering reduced sentences to those charged with crimes against
   humanity--in return for their co-operation with investigators. Their
   assets were to be used to compensate victims. The official hope was
   that this offered an acceptable balance between the conflicting
   interests of justice, reparation and the achievement of peace with an
   undefeated outlaw army.

   Yet two years on, nobody is satisfied. Rights groups say the law is a
   cloak for impunity. The paramilitary leaders complain that they were
   duped by promises of lenient treatment, since broken. Officials say
   peace has been sabotaged by the courts. Hundreds of former fighters
   are re-arming.

   Universal dissatisfaction might suggest to some that the government
   has got the balance right--except that the whole precarious structure
   of the peace process now looks at risk of crashing down. Last month
   the Supreme Court ruled that the rank-and-file paramilitaries could
   not be considered to have committed (and thus be pardoned for) the
   political crime of sedition, as the law envisages.

   The court's argument was that the paramilitaries did not rise against
   the state, but acted in complicity with some army officers and
   politicians to defend economic interests (such as those of
   drug-traffickers). So, it ruled, they engaged in a criminal conspiracy
   for which they cannot be pardoned or amnestied.

   That may be legally true. But Mr Uribe accused the court of double
   standards in having considered in the past that the crimes of the
   left-wing guerrillas, which include the murder and kidnap of civilians
   as well as drug-trafficking, are political in nature. The jailed
   paramilitary leaders responded to the ruling by threatening to end
   collaboration with the authorities. They desisted only after the
   government sent Congress a new bill to grant them political status.
   But even if the bill is passed, it may well be knocked down by the
   courts.

   Mr Uribe's critics say that this impasse reflects the improvised way
   in which the peace process has been conducted. Officials counter that
   the process was bound to be messy, and that its flaws can be corrected
   as it goes along. They point out that no other country has put so many
   people on trial while conflict continues.

   Only 44 paramilitaries (out of a potential 3,000) have begun giving
   their courtroom confessions. Some 70,000 people have applied to be
   officially registered as victims. The attorney-general's office seems
   overwhelmed, and impatience among the victims is mounting.

   When militia leaders began their confessions in December, throngs of
   victims packed into anterooms where they could watch the hearings
   through a live video feed. But as one leader after another recounted
   massacres and disappearances with no remorse, and blamed many crimes
   on long-dead leaders, disillusion has grown. "The truth that we were
   promised from all this is not coming forth," says Ivn Cepeda, who
   leads a national victims' organisation. Scores of victims have
   received death threats, and at least three have been murdered this
   year.

   Whereas the government pays a stipend to the former fighters, the
   victims have yet to receive anything. Even so, the biggest fear is
   that more of the demobilised paramilitaries will return to arms and
   crime. The Supreme Court's decision could encourage that, says Gustavo
   Duncan, the author of a book on the paramilitaries. But he reckons
   that the jailed leaders have no choice but to stick with the process,
   not least because for some it is the only safeguard against
   extradition to the United States on drugs charges. For all its
   problems, the likelihood is that the peace process will stumble on.


   A change of power in one of the Caribbean's best-run and most stable
   democracies

   IT WAS an all-night party in Barbados after the island's general
   election on January 15th. "Plenty change," a Bridgetown bar-owner
   grinned, and he wasn't just referring to the mounds of cash he was
   counting. After 13 lonely years in opposition, three election defeats
   and a series of long-running party-leadership squabbles, David
   Thompson led his Democratic Labour Party (DLP) triumphantly back to
   power, with 20 of the 30 parliamentary seats. In the previous
   election, in 2003, it won just seven seats.

   By American standards, the campaign was blissfully short. The election
   was called on December 20th, leaving just two lively weeks after the
   Christmas and new-year break to get the voters in. There is no great
   ideological gulf between Mr Thompson's party and the outgoing Barbados
   Labour Party (BLP). But from time to time Barbadians like to shake up
   the political scene. Although Owen Arthur, the BLP leader, was
   regarded as a good manager, people felt that he had become a little
   arrogant after his 13 years in power, and some of his party rather too
   comfortably settled.

   Voters also fretted over rising food prices, cost overruns on a road
   project and property prices jacked up by villa-buying foreigners. Then
   there was a row over claims by the BLP that Taiwan had funded Mr
   Thompson's campaign in exchange for a promise of diplomatic
   recognition. This was hotly denied by the DLP, anxious to avoid a rift
   with China.

   Barbados is one of the Caribbean's oldest and most stable democracies,
   consistently getting top-drawer rankings for its political and civil
   liberties. From 1639 an elected House of Assembly--not the
   British-appointed colonial governor--controlled the island's cash. The
   first mixed-race member, Samuel Jackman Prescod, won a seat in 1843.
   Universal suffrage eventually followed in 1951, and independence 15
   years later. On a visit to the island in 1859 Anthony Trollope, a
   British novelist, found it irritatingly well run.

   Barbados also tops all other Latin American and Caribbean countries in
   the UN Development Programme's human-development index. Transparency
   International, a corruption watchdog, ranks it second cleanest in the
   region, just behind Chile. In September unemployment hit an all-time
   low of 7%, down from a peak of 27% in 1993 when the DLP was last in
   power.

   "Change" (of leadership) was the DLP's campaign watchword. The new
   government, which inherits an uncomfortably big public debt, equal to
   88% of GDP, will have other changes to deal with, too. Important
   business decisions are increasingly likely to be taken in neighbouring
   Trinidad rather than Barbados. Many big local firms are already
   majority-owned by Trinidad shareholders. Now two Trinidad companies
   are fighting for control of Barbados Shipping & Trading, the island's
   biggest conglomerate.

   Sugar, the economic mainstay until the 1960s, will lose its guaranteed
   European market by 2015, and is already suffering EU price cuts. Costs
   are among the world's highest, but cane keeps the landscape in good
   order. Shutting down sugar would dent the country's confidence, too.
   Mr Arthur had proposed a new $156m sugar factory, using cane for
   electricity and biofuel, and exporting pricey premium-brand Plantation
   Reserve sugar. The DLP called the plan a "mishmash", but has yet to
   come up with a better one.

   Meanwhile, the island's medium-sized independent hotels, the backbone
   of its tourist industry, are facing rising costs and increasing
   competition from cruise ships; some have closed. High oil prices will
   push up air fares this year. Further ahead, global (over)warming may
   cut the pulling power of Barbados's tropical beaches, now attracting
   over half a million tourists a year.

   On the upside, there may be oil. In 2004 Barbados faced down Trinidad
   in a dispute over their maritime boundaries, and two years later won a
   big slice of seabed, which America's Geological Service believes may
   contain some generous deposits, though the waters are deep and the
   geology complex. A bid round for exploration rights, which has already
   sparked interest from several big oil companies, closes in April. Over
   to you, Mr Thompson.


   A different Kirchner is in charge, but many of the policies remain the
   same

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP


   AT A packed ceremony in Argentina's Congress on December 10th, Nstor
   Kirchner gave his wife, Cristina Fernndez de Kirchner, a gift
   hitherto unknown in the history of marriage: his country's
   presidential sash and staff. In an improvised but fluent speech, she
   returned the compliment by lavishing praise on his achievements, and
   promising to consolidate them. She has kept many of her husband's
   ministers. But amid this seamless display of political continuity are
   hints of change ahead for Argentina.

   Ms Fernndez, although a former senator and experienced politician in
   her own right, owes her elevation to her husband's decision not to
   seek a second term. In that sense, her status as Argentina's first
   elected woman president is not quite the feminist victory it appears
   (see [4]article).

   Buoyed by his popularity--the economy has expanded by nearly 50% since
   he took office in 2003--she coasted to victory in an election in
   October with the slogan "change is just beginning". In foreign
   affairs, that may be true. She has also implied that she will be more
   respectful of Argentina's democratic institutions than her sometimes
   high-handed husband. Where Mr Kirchner seemed to relish confrontation,
   she ran as a consensus-builder.

   Her biggest test will be the management of an economy that shows signs
   of overheating after its vigorous recovery from the financial collapse
   of 2001-02. That recovery owed much to high world prices for the
   country's farm exports, but Argentines give Mr Kirchner, a left-wing
   Peronist, much of the credit. Until a pre-election spending binge, he
   ran a fairly tight fiscal policy. He bullied many of the country's
   creditors into accepting a debt restructuring on tough terms. He also
   paid off the IMF in order not to have to listen to its advice,
   refounded several state companies and kept the peso cheap in order to
   promote re-industrialisation.

   Most economists reckon inflation is close to 20%, although the
   government has massaged the official figure to keep it to half that,
   as well as imposing price controls. Energy demand is close to
   outpacing supply: the last southern-hemisphere winter saw occasional
   blackouts.

   Ms Fernndez said she would make "necessary corrections". In an
   attempt to boost innovation, she has created a new ministry for
   science and technology. In the past few weeks her husband has floated
   plans to raise energy tariffs and taken steps to restore the fiscal
   surplus. But it appears that Mr Kirchner's notorious price-fixer,
   Guillermo Moreno, the secretary for internal trade, will keep his job.
   "The Kirchners are Peronists," says Luis Tonelli, a columnist for
   Debate magazine. "If they have to choose between jobs and inflation,
   they'll choose jobs."

   The choice may come in wage negotiations next year. Ms Fernndez
   called for a "social pact". Labour may be in no mood to compromise.
   Hugo Moyano, a powerful union leader, has given warning of strikes if
   the new president does not bless big wage rises across the board. "For
   the government, inflation will begin to matter once it matters to
   workers and businessmen," says Vladimir Werning of JPMorgan, an
   investment bank.

   Change may be more tangible in foreign policy, which bored Mr Kirchner
   but fascinates his wife. She said that Argentina would "re-engage with
   the world". She has signalled that she wants better ties with the
   United States, Europe and Brazil. In the first case, new strains may
   come from a decision by prosecutors in Florida this week to charge
   four people they claim were Venezuelan agents with plotting to conceal
   an intended $800,000 cash contribution during Argentina's election
   campaign.

   Ms Fernndez is no less a nationalist than her husband. While keen to
   settle Argentina's $7 billion of defaulted debt with the Paris Club of
   creditor governments, she refuses to brook involvement by the IMF,
   which the group normally requires. She shares her husband's enthusiasm
   for Venezuela's Hugo Chvez, who buys Argentina's bonds and sells it
   fuel.

   Having handed over the sash, what will Mr Kirchner now do? He has said
   that he will devote himself to reorganising Peronism. Just as she was
   an influential adviser during his presidency, doubtless he will be
   too. He came to office with "more unemployed than votes", as his wife
   recalled. But at least the country was already on the rebound in 2003.
   Ms Fernndez may find her husband a hard act to follow. She may have
   to steer her course between a slowdown in the world economy as well as
   accelerating inflation at home. Unlike him, she starts her presidency
   stronger and more popular than she may end it.


   Malnutrition amid growing plenty


   KICKING a football around a dusty lot, Judin Quicao looks like any
   other boy of four. But stand him against a standard growth chart and
   he is almost a head shorter than he should be at his age. His mother
   says that is just his natural build. Health officials say he is among
   nearly 30% of Peruvian children in his age group who suffer from
   chronic malnutrition. The figure rises to 90% in places such as
   Lliupapuquio, a village in Apurmac department in Peru's heavily
   Indian southern Andes where Judin lives.

   The picture is similar in neighbouring Bolivia and Ecuador. What makes
   the stunting of children's lives and bodies more shocking in Peru's
   case is that the country is enjoying a boom. The GDP expanded by 8.3%
   last year alone, and is some 45% bigger today than it was in 2001.
   Many of the poor benefit from social programmes. The government spends
   around $250m a year on food-aid schemes alone, which reach
   three-quarters of families in poor rural areas.

   So why does malnutrition remain so prevalent? One reason is that in
   the Andes it generally manifests itself as stunted growth. Many
   Peruvians, often including the parents of the children concerned,
   believe that people of Andean Indian descent are naturally short.
   Malnutrition is thus "invisible" because the children are not
   "super-thin or dehydrated", says Ian Walker, a social-protection
   specialist at the World Bank. But children who do not eat well in
   their first two years will face learning difficulties.

   Although governments have increased spending on social programmes,
   they have done little to improve their effectiveness. In Apurmac,
   mayors complain of duplication, corruption and lack of local control.
   But the biggest problem is that economic growth is not reaching many
   parts of the Andes. Official figures put poverty in Apurmac at 74.8%
   in 2006, having increased slightly since 2004. In such places, a lack
   of transport, education and health care all conspire against progress.

   When he took office in July 2006, President Alan Garca pledged to cut
   the incidence of child malnutrition by eight percentage points by the
   end of his term in 2011. The World Bank and other development agencies
   are trying to help. Last year the World Bank approved a $150m loan for
   streamlining social programmes and to enhance their impact on
   malnutrition, health and schooling, especially in Andean Indian
   villages.

   There are reasons for hope. In Santa Mara de Chicmo, a district in
   Apurmac, the incidence of malnourishment in children has been cut
   from 80% to 30% since 2000. Most of the credit belongs to a scheme
   pioneered by Kusi Warma, an NGO whose name means "Happy Child" in
   Quechua, and whose work is backed by the municipal council and Unicef,
   the United Nations' children fund. It revolves around a small centre
   where new mothers bring their children for pre-school education and
   information about nutrition and health. The task facing Peru is to
   replicate this success, and go beyond it.


   A setback for Lula and new uncertainty for public finances

   IT IS an odd conjunction. The government struggles to get much done.
   But the president, Luiz Incio Lula da Silva, floats above other
   politicians on a cloud of his own popularity. On December 13th he
   suffered the biggest defeat of his second term, when the Senate
   rejected the renewal of the CPMF, a tax on financial transactions. On
   the same day, Ibope, a pollster, suggested that 65% of Brazilians
   approve of their president.

   What explains this mixture of popularity and impotence? First, it is
   rare for any president to enjoy a majority in the Senate. He must use
   patronage to build coalitions and involve himself in negotiations with
   the opposition. Lula does neither of these things particularly well.
   His government has given too many jobs to Lula's own Workers' Party
   and to its biggest coalition partner, the PMDB, a blancmange of a
   party whose guiding philosophy is to wobble in the direction of power
   and then demand rewards for its support.

   Second, an expanding economy has kept tax revenues buoyant, making
   arguing for more taxes tricky. In a last-minute bid to save the CPMF,
   Lula announced that all the 40 billion reais ($22 billion) the new tax
   would raise would be spent on health care. Earlier, the government
   said it was essential to pay for bolsa famlia, a large-scale
   anti-poverty scheme. The opposition reckoned the tax would allow the
   government to splurge before municipal elections next year.

   The loss of the CPMF is a setback but not a disaster for the
   government. It can probably plug the gap through clever accounting and
   rises in other taxes. It could even trim a bloated bureaucracy. But
   the overall fiscal deficit runs close to 2% of GDP. Traders in the
   financial markets reckon that the Senate's blow to the public finances
   will discourage the ratings agencies from elevating Brazil's debt to
   investment grade. Lula was more serene. When his finance minister
   suggested that a new tax would be needed to replace the missing
   revenue, Lula told him to stop worrying and calm down.


   Getting ready for a post-Castro bonanza

   THE American businessman at this month's international trade fair in
   Havana was full of excitement about the communist island's investment
   prospects as its long-serving president ails. "It's a perfect storm,"
   he enthused: "Fidel will soon be gone, and a Democratic president will
   be in the White House. Bye-bye embargo!"

   Few of the foreign investors who have spent years struggling to make
   money in Cuba, caught between American trade restrictions, communist
   bureaucracy and preferential deals for key allies such as China and
   Venezuela, see it quite so simply. But even the most jaded are
   wondering whether things might be looking up. Hopes have been raised
   by news of a huge deal in the making. It could be the shape of things
   to come.

   After two years of negotiations, plans are moving forward for Dubai
   Ports World, a partly state-owned company in the United Arab Emirates,
   to invest $250m in converting the decrepit port in Mariel, just west
   of Havana, into a modern container facility. A formal feasibility
   study has been commissioned.

   The choice of Mariel, one of the closest points in Cuba to the United
   States, is significant. The port is best known as the setting for a
   massive boatlift in 1980 when, over a period of six months, 125,000
   Cubans set off in flimsy rafts as Fidel Castro turned a temporary
   blind eye to those wanting to leave his poor one-party state. They
   were picked up and taken to the United States by a flotilla of
   American yachts.

   Mariel appeals to international port operators for the same
   reason--its proximity to the United States. "This deal isn't just
   about getting goods to Cuba," said one analyst who had studied the
   project. "It's about getting into the US market." American ports are
   close to capacity, and environmental restrictions make any big
   expansion of existing terminals unlikely. In a post-embargo world,
   Mariel, which is expected to be open for business by 2012, would be a
   well-positioned hub. Goods could be transferred from the big container
   ships arriving at the port to smaller vessels which could then reach
   dozens of harbours in the southern United States.

   Dubai Ports World refuses to comment on the deal. But there can be
   little doubt that the company is eager to gain a foothold, if not
   actually in the United States, then as close as possible to it. Last
   year it was forced to abandon plans to operate six big ports in the
   United States after Congress expressed security concerns. Although the
   United Arab Emirates is considered a close American ally, two of the
   hijackers involved in the September 11th 2001 terrorist attacks were
   UAE nationals.

   Does Cuba's acceptance of the Mariel project mean that the country's
   top brass is beginning to plan seriously for the day when the American
   embargo might end? That might appear premature, given that the Bush
   administration has explicitly ruled out unrestricted trading with a
   Cuban government under Raul Castro, Fidel's brother and presumed
   successor, and that only one American presidential candidate (Chris
   Dodd, a Democratic outsider) has called for a complete end to the
   embargo.

   All the same, there is evidence that Cuban officials do believe that
   the days of the bloqueo (as they refer to the embargo) are numbered.
   The Cuban ministries that deal with foreign investment, known by their
   Orwellian abbreviations of MINVEC and MINFAR, have recently been
   putting the word out to foreign investors that tenders are welcome for
   a raft of projects. Theme parks, super-yacht marinas, golf courses,
   even airlines--all apparently geared to a future American market
   too--feature prominently on the list.

   An end to the embargo could provide a bonanza to investors with assets
   in Cuba that would appeal to American corporations. The paltry returns
   from, say, a share in a Havana hotel would be dwarfed by the value
   that could be realised by selling that stake to an American hotel
   chain. "That's the game plan," admitted one Havana-based businessman.
   "But," he added, "so is patience."


                                                                   Corbis

                                   Corbis

   How to reform the flawed behemoth that is the world's sixth-biggest
   oil producer

   CANTARELL, in the Gulf of Mexico, was once the world's biggest
   offshore oilfield, holding over 35 billion barrels of the black stuff.
   Now, after nearly three decades, it is running out. At its peak in
   2004 it produced 2.1m barrels of oil per day (b/d), making up 60% of
   Mexico's total output. That figure has already fallen by more than
   500,000 b/d and could fall by another 200,000 b/d by the spring.

   This is a worry for both Mexico and the world. Although Mexico
   contains less than 1% of the world's proven oil reserves, it is the
   sixth-largest producer. Its output of 3.1m b/d is well above that of
   Venezuela or Kuwait. And although oil no longer dominates the Mexican
   economy--even at recent high prices it provided 16% of exports in
   2006, down from 68% in 1982--it lubricates the public finances,
   contributing nearly 40% of federal revenues.

   Since its nationalisation in 1938, Mexican oil has been the preserve
   of Petrleos Mexicanos, a state monopoly. Pemex resembles a poorly run
   government ministry. Its past three chief executives have all been
   accused of corruption (though some of these allegations may stem from
   bureaucratic infighting). It must comply with onerous procurement
   rules meant to prevent graft, which in practice are merely a drag on
   getting things done.

   This flawed behemoth is now in "a race against time" to compensate for
   Cantarell, says Fabio Barbosa, an energy specialist at Mexico's
   National Autonomous University. It is a race that Pemex seems likely
   to lose. In a document released in December setting out its strategy
   for the next five years, the energy ministry forecast that total oil
   production would decline to 2.5m b/d unless policies were reformed,
   and would remain roughly constant even if the industry were
   liberalised.

   This is partly the result of two wasted decades in which governments
   have milked Pemex of cash which it might otherwise have invested. That
   has begun to change: investment in exploration and production doubled
   between 2000 and 2006 (though much of the increase came through
   federal debt guarantees to private contractors). Mexico's president,
   Felipe Caldern, has pushed through a reform of public finances that
   will cut the royalty Pemex pays from 79 centavos on every peso of oil
   it extracts to 71.5 centavos by 2012. The company expects its capital
   spending to rise in 2008 by 20% in real terms.

   But this may be too little too late. Mr Barbosa reckons that the
   density of drilling rigs is 20 times greater in oil-producing parts of
   the American segment of the Gulf of Mexico than it is in Mexican
   waters. In particular, Pemex has drilled a mere 20 exploratory wells
   in water deeper than 300 metres (980 feet). The only result so far is
   Lakach, a gasfield now moving prematurely towards production after the
   sinking of only one exploratory well. The rush stems from an official
   desire to start deep-water production before the end of Mr Caldern's
   term in 2012, reckons David Shields, an energy consultant.

   Pemex has trouble maintaining its existing installations. A fire at a
   platform in Cantarell in October killed 21 workers. The firm has also
   suffered several bombings of pipelines this year by a guerrilla group.
   Since Mexico has not built a new refinery in 20 years, it has to
   import 40% of its petrol from the United States. The competition
   commission says Pemex's 7,500 petrol stations are too few to meet
   demand.

   The obvious solution is to privatise the industry, but that is
   politically impossible. The state oil monopoly is both popular and
   constitutionally mandated. So Mr Caldern and other politicians have
   been searching for ways to loosen the monopoly while respecting the
   constitution.

   The Senate's energy committee is holding a "private, technical debate"
   on how to do this, according to Rubn Camarillo, a senator from Mr
   Caldern's centre-right National Action Party. The purpose is to try
   to reach an all-party consensus by February. So far there is
   "agreement about what needs to be done, but not how to do it," says Mr
   Camarillo.

   One step forward would be to grant Pemex control of its own budget. At
   present some $10 billion a year of this goes back to the federal
   treasury--on top of Pemex's tax payments. Another proposal would open
   refining, transport and distribution to private enterprise. This could
   be done without changing the constitution, since what constitutes "the
   oil industry" is defined only in ordinary legislation, as Csar
   Hernndez of CIDAC, a Mexico City think-tank, points out. This was the
   route taken in the 1990s to allow private investment in electricity
   generation and the transport of natural gas. Similarly, the ban on
   risk-sharing contracts in oil exploration is set out only in ordinary
   law.

   But the crux of the problem is how to make Pemex more efficient and
   open. Five of its 11 board members are appointed by the oil workers'
   union, a bastion of old-fashioned corporatism. Mr Camarillo reckons
   that reform could cut Pemex's operating costs by 20%. Others look at
   the company's overmanning and contract-padding and put the figure
   higher.

   Reaching a political consensus on oil reform eluded Mexico's past two
   presidents. Sergio Osorio, who advises the centre-left Party of the
   Democratic Revolution on energy, cautions that if Mr Caldern tries to
   pass reforms on an issue as sensitive as oil merely by reaching
   agreement with the centrist Institutional Revolutionary Party (as he
   did with reforms of pensions and taxes in 2007), he will "put at risk
   his legitimacy". Certainly there would be protests. But weighed
   against declining oil revenues, that is something Mr Caldern may be
   inclined to risk.


   Too much confronting and voting, too little governing

   ON TAKING office as president last year, Evo Morales, a radical
   socialist of Andean Indian descent, promised to "refound" Bolivia on
   more democratic lines by means of a new constitution. But far from
   offering Bolivia a new start, the constitutional rewrite threatens to
   prolong a political confrontation that has seen two presidents
   overthrown since 2003.

   At a marathon 16-hour session held at a university in the highland
   city of Oruro on December 9th, a rump of the constituent assembly (164
   of its 255 members, most supporters of Mr Morales) rubber-stamped all
   of the 411 clauses of the new charter (bar one on landholding). But
   the opposition boycotted the session; it claims the document is
   illegal, since it was not approved by the required two-thirds majority
   of the assembly. Legal or not, the government's plan is to submit the
   document to a referendum next year.

   Mr Morales's followers say the new constitution will give more rights
   to indigenous Bolivians. It recognises no fewer than 37 official
   languages and grants autonomy to indigenous communities. They call the
   opposition a racist "oligarchy".

   Only a score of articles are controversial (though others may prove to
   be expensive). Opponents worry in particular about the weakening of
   property rights and a greater role for the state in the economy; about
   giving traditional, community justice equal status to the formal
   courts; and about judges being popularly elected rather than being
   appointed by a two-thirds majority of Congress as at present. They
   also want more explicit guarantees of regional autonomy.

   Narrow though the differences seem, the constitution is only part of a
   broader political battle between two Bolivias: the poorer, mainly
   Indian western highlands still revere Mr Morales, while the opposition
   is led by the regional prefects of the more prosperous eastern
   departments. They accuse the president of stirring up racial conflict
   in a country where many people have been happy enough to define
   themselves as mestizo (of mixed race).

   The opposition has had the upper hand for much of the past few months.
   Through political miscalculation, Mr Morales has driven the
   departments of Cochabamba and Chuquisaca into the opposition camp;
   even the prefect of La Paz was critical of the way the constitution
   was approved. Five regional governments plan unilaterally to declare
   autonomy on December 15th.

   The opposition also objects to the government's efforts to remove
   three of the five judges on the Constitutional Tribunal, and to Mr
   Morales's reliance on Venezuela's Hugo Chvez, who has provided the
   government with cash and advisers. On December 6th a mob stoned a
   Venezuelan aircraft which landed at Riberalta, in the northern jungle.

   But some of the prefects, too, seem to be overplaying their hand, by
   threatening separatism. "The government has to choose between
   autonomous departments within the nation, or new countries for
   neighbours," says Mario Cosso, the prefect of Tarija. Along with his
   colleagues from Santa Cruz, Beni and Cochabamba, Mr Cosso went to
   Washington, DC, earlier this month to press the Organisation of
   American States to intervene. This has annoyed the armed forces.

   Mr Morales has responded by challenging the opposition to a sort of
   duel. He is proposing recall referendums for himself and the prefects.
   One way or another, Bolivians may have a lot of voting to do in 2008.
   That may be an effort to distract attention from everyday problems,
   such as fuel shortages (caused by mismanagement by the state oil
   company), rising inflation and a lack of jobs. Mr Morales enjoyed
   widespread sympathy at home and abroad when he took office. He risks
   squandering much of that by seeking confrontation rather than the
   political consensus he needs to improve the lot of poorer Bolivians.


   A police anti-graft show


   THE biggest celebrity in Brazil these days is not a football star or a
   telenovela heroine but the federal police force. In a string of
   spectacular operations with melodramatic names, the police have
   recently caught judges taking bribes to keep gambling halls in
   business, congressmen arranging the purchase of ambulances at inflated
   prices and a retailer smuggling in luxury goods. The latest is
   "Operation Razor", an investigation into fraudulent public works that
   has cost the energy minister his job, implicated a dozen legislators,
   embarrassed several state governors and now threatens Renan Calheiros,
   the president of the Senate, an important ally of President Luiz
   Incio Lula da Silva.

   All this makes Brazil look ever-more corrupt. But it may be simply
   that the authorities are getting better at detecting the rot. Lula's
   government lost its corruption-fighting credibility two years ago,
   when it emerged that his Workers' Party was paying bribes in exchange
   for votes in Congress. But also on his watch the Federal Police have
   turned tigerish, often to the government's embarrassment. Operation
   Razor has implicated nine parties, most of them Lula's allies. The
   government's audit watchdog, the Controladoria-Geral da Unio (CGU),
   has been strengthened. "This government seems to be more corrupt
   because it uncovered the muck," Jorge Hage, the CGU's chief, claimed
   recently.

   Operation Razor was a typical Federal-Police production, using tapped
   telephones and hidden-camera footage to accuse politicians, officials
   and businessmen of directing public contracts to a builder with a
   penchant for overcharging and leaving projects unfinished. Rather than
   deliver electricity to the poor, the firm allegedly left them in the
   dark; an unfinished bridge shelters an al fresco pool hall in the
   northeastern state of Maranho.

   Such sting operations may be dramatic, but sadly the courts are not
   matching the police's vigour. No one accused of selling over-priced
   ambulances or paying stipends to congressmen has been convicted.
   Scandals trigger a flurry of temporary arrests--more than 4,000 in
   Federal Police operations since 2003. After that, suspects can count
   on Brazil's overburdened and inefficient judiciary to keep them out of
   jail.

   The costs of corruption are huge. One study found that in districts
   with fewer than 450,000 inhabitants--90% of the total--a tenth of the
   money transferred by the federal government was gobbled up by graft.
   The latest scandal may slow the government's ambitious infrastructure
   spending programme, centred on energy projects. The weakening of Mr
   Calheiros dents the government's influence in the Senate, where its
   majority is slim. "This is starting to take over the congressional
   agenda," says Alexandre Marinis of Mosaico Economia Poltica, a
   consultancy.

   With Congress lie some of the solutions as well as much of the
   problem. It is rethinking the practice of allowing congressmen and
   parties to insert pet projects into the budget, which the executive
   can then approve as a way to buy legislative support. Some want a
   reform of politics to make congressmen more accountable to voters and
   to ban private donations in election campaigns. There are calls for a
   law to implement the constitutional right to freedom of information.

   Even the Federal Police has not emerged unscathed from its own
   investigations. Two senior officers were asked to step down
   temporarily this week after allegations that they had interfered in
   earlier inquiries that threatened their colleagues. Details of
   Operation Razor were leaked to the press, some via a DVD with the
   soundtrack of "The Godfather". Congress is mulling ways to guarantee
   the secrecy of such investigations. The backlash may dim the Federal
   Police's star power.


   In a chart accompanying our story on Mexico's oil industry
   ("[3]Running just to stand still", December 22nd), we mistakenly
   measured oil reserves in trillions, instead of billions, of barrels.
   Sorry. This error has been corrected online.


   Another hostage debacle


   FOR four days, several Venezuelan helicopters and an international
   reception committee including Nstor Kirchner, Argentina's former
   president, and Oliver Stone, a Hollywood filmmaker, waited at the
   airport in Villavicencio, a town in the Colombian lowlands, for the
   left-wing guerrillas of the FARC to fulfil a promise to release three
   of the hostages they have held for years. In Caracas, Hugo Chvez,
   Venezuela's leftist president, to whom the FARC had made the pledge,
   stood by with the captives' relatives. But this bizarre show ended
   without a denouement on New Year's Eve, and with Mr Chvez and his
   entourage embarrassed.

   The FARC told him they could not hand over the three
   hostages--Consuelo Gonzlez and Clara Rojas, both politicians, and Ms
   Rojas's three year-old son, Emmanuel, born in captivity--because of
   nearby operations by the Colombian army designed to sabotage the
   release.

   lvaro Uribe, Colombia's president, flew to Villavicencio to insist
   that the army had stood aside. The FARC were lying, he said: its
   commanders aborted the release when they found out that they no longer
   held Emmanuel, whose father was a guerrilla. Officials believe that
   they have located the boy in Bogot, and say he was handed over for
   foster care in an isolated jungle town in 2005. They are carrying out
   DNA tests to confirm this. If these prove the government's contention,
   the FARC have made a fool of Mr Chvez, as well as themselves.

   In all the FARC hold some 750 hostages. They want to swap 45 of them,
   including Ingrid Betancourt, a politician of dual Colombian and French
   nationality, and three American defence contractors, for jailed
   guerrillas. But they have demanded that the government remove troops
   from two municipalities to allow talks. Mr Uribe, whose unbending
   policies have improved security in Colombia, refuses to do this.

   Pressed both by Colombians and by France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy,
   to strike a deal, Mr Uribe in August accepted the mediation of Mr
   Chvez, only to reject it again in November because of the Venezuelan
   leader's political grandstanding. He may feel vindicated in his
   mistrust of the guerrillas and of his neighbour. But the fate of the
   hostages will continue to dog him.


                                                            Claudio Munoz

                               Claudio Munoz

   Stephen Harper's minority Conservative government is in need of an
   overhaul


   JUNE has not been a good month for Stephen Harper, the Canadian prime
   minister. At the G8 summit in Germany his record on foreign aid was
   singled out for special criticism by two Irish rock stars with
   planet-saving ambitions, Bono and Bob Geldof. His return to Canada was
   blighted by the loss of a Conservative MP, bounced from the party's
   caucus for opposing the budget, and by a confrontation caught on
   camera with an 80-year-old widow, who accused him of lying about
   extending veterans' benefits. The government's much-vaunted green plan
   was denounced as ineffectual by a prominent think-tank usually
   sympathetic to the Conservative cause. And as Parliament limped toward
   its summer recess this week, two angry premiers descended on Ottawa to
   castigate the prime minister for supposedly breaking his word to them
   on financial transfers to their provinces.

   It is a far cry from six months ago, when Mr Harper was riding high in
   the polls and appeared poised to call an election that would turn his
   governing Conservative minority into a majority. After one year in
   power, he had largely kept five narrow campaign promises and could
   convincingly argue the need for a new mandate. But the chance
   disappeared as public support for the Conservatives, which peaked
   after the launch of a generous budget in March, quickly dropped back
   into minority territory, where it remains.

   Such a litany of woes might be expected to worry a party that holds
   only 124 of the 308 seats in the House of Commons (there are 100
   Liberals, 49 Bloc Qubcois, 29 New Democrats, four independents and
   two vacant seats). Yet Mr Harper continues to exude confidence.

   There are two main reasons for this. One is that although the wheels
   appear to be coming off the Tory motor, which was only ever designed
   for a short race, the opposition parties are having trouble even
   starting their engines. The second is the insouciance of ordinary
   Canadians, who are benefiting from a strong economy and record low
   unemployment. There is really not a lot troubling the nation, says
   Darrell Bricker, a pollster; Canadians have never been more
   optimistic.

   This is not what the Liberals want to hear. They continue to hammer
   the government for its handling of Canada's military mission in
   Afghanistan, and its weak plan to clean up the environment. But they
   are hamstrung by their own record. It was a Liberal government that
   first sent troops to Afghanistan in 2002. They were also responsible
   for a much-criticised deal in which prisoners captured by Canadian
   forces were handed over to Afghan troops and then allegedly tortured.
   Their position is equally weak on the environmental front. Having
   signed the Kyoto protocol, they did little to meet its stringent
   targets for emissions reductions.

   Indeed, all three opposition leaders have problems. Stphane Dion,
   chosen by the Liberals last December, remains largely unknown outside
   his Quebec base. Gilles Duceppe of the Bloc Qubcois is suffering
   from a self-inflicted blow after announcing his departure for
   provincial politics this spring, only to change his mind within 24
   hours. And Jack Layton of the leftist New Democrats seems powerless to
   stop an erosion of party support in favour of the Greens, even though
   this is a fringe party that has yet to get a member of parliament.

   Although all this is grist for the political mill on Parliament Hill,
   it seems to leave the rest of Canada virtually untouched. Consumer
   spending remains strong, with house prices shattering all records in
   May. Unemployment at 6.1% is at a 33-year low. Even the beleaguered
   manufacturing industry, battered by a high dollar and competition with
   China, has staged a rebound. The economy is "worrisomely good", says
   Philip Cross, chief economic analyst at Statistics Canada, the
   national statistical agency.

   Foreign investors appear to share that opinion and are snapping up
   Canadian companies in record numbers. This has prompted a debate about
   whether corporate Canada is being "hollowed out". Many wonder whether
   Canada's corporate bosses are sufficiently aggressive. But even this
   debate is taken as a sign of economic strength; only good times allow
   the luxury of navel-gazing.

   With an early election in no one's interest, the government has no
   choice but to set a new course for the long haul. That involves making
   peace with the provinces and those segments of the business community
   who feel bruised by unexpected tax measures in the last budget. It
   also requires a new plan of action to replace the former five
   priorities.

   Hugh Segal, the Conservative senator who helped co-ordinate the last
   election campaign, is sceptical about the need for grand visions. What
   is required, he says, are policies to address the big challenges like
   immigration, trade, corporate tax and the environment. Tax cuts in
   particular would reassure the government's core supporters, based
   mainly in the western provinces, that the administration they helped
   to elect still believes in smaller government and lower taxes. Tory
   efforts to win votes in Quebec by lavishing money on the province and
   promoting green policies have led to disillusionment among some
   westerners, who have long felt estranged from the central government.

   The Tories probably had these supporters in mind when they decided to
   sponsor a racing car on Canada's NASCAR circuit this summer. Although
   not environmentally friendly--the cars guzzle petrol--the sport
   appeals to the ordinary working Canadians whose interests Mr Harper
   frequently invokes. Perhaps the prime minister will even attend.
   Watching a finely tuned engine whiz around the track might inspire him
   to rev up his own sputtering government machine.


   In our story last week on Mexico's National Autonomous University
   ([3]"A doctor takes charge") we wrongly stated that it is the only
   Latin American university to be ranked by Britain's Times Higher
   Education Supplement in the top 200 in the world. The University of
   So Paulo and the University of Campinas, both in Brazil, are ranked
   175 and 177 respectively. Apologies.


                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   Lower oil prices threaten Hugo Chvez's expensive revolution. But he
   is not about to run out of cash soon 


   HE LOOKS unstoppable. Since his sweeping victory in an election in
   December, Venezuela's leftist president, Hugo Chvez, has stepped on
   the revolutionary accelerator. Parliament this week gave him the power
   to legislate by decree for 18 months. A committee of his supporters is
   drafting a constitutional reform to turn Venezuela into an avowedly
   socialist country, and to allow the president to stand for re-election
   indefinitely. "Nothing can stop the revolution!" proclaim full-page
   advertisements in the newspapers, adorned with the newly-minted red
   star of Mr Chvez's "Bolivarian socialism". Nothing, that is, except
   perhaps a decline in the price of oil, on which the government depends
   for nearly half its revenue.

   It has been Mr Chvez's extraordinary good fortune that the price of
   oil increased more than sixfold since he took office in 1999 to its
   peak last year. That has allowed him to ramp up public spending. With
   private investors scared off by controls and Mr Chvez's socialist
   talk, it is this spending binge that helped the economy recover after
   an opposition-led two-month general strike in 2002-03 and has since
   fuelled rapid economic growth (see chart).

   So a lower oil price threatens economic growth, and with it Mr
   Chvez's popularity. Already, official projections and independent
   forecasts suggest the rate of growth may halve this year (but to a
   still-healthy 5%). Venezuelan crude, much of which is heavy and
   sulphurous, sells for about $10 less than lighter benchmark crudes
   such as Brent and West Texas Intermediate. Last year the average price
   for the Venezuelan "basket" of crudes was $56 a barrel. Last month,
   that figure was about $46. Any further fall might start to constrain
   Mr Chvez's ability to spend freely at home and abroad.

   The 2007 budget is conservatively based on an average price for the
   Venezuelan basket of $29. But it is also based on average oil
   production of around 3.4m barrels a day (b/d). Neither of these
   figures bears much relation to reality and nor does the budget itself.
   Independent analysts, including OPEC and the International Energy
   Agency, believe the true production figure to be around 2.5m b/d. To
   complicate matters further, some of the oil is sold at a discount as
   part of Mr Chvez's strategy to win influence abroad, and 100,000 b/d
   is more or less donated to Cuba.

   In contrast, total government spending last year was a third higher
   than originally budgeted. That pattern is likely to be repeated this
   year. "Quasi-fiscal" or off-budget spending, involving the diversion
   of oil revenues and the central bank's reserves into funds directly
   controlled by the president, is large and increasing.

   Mr Chvez has a large piggy-bank he can draw on. The forthcoming
   constitutional reform is likely to strip the central bank of its last
   vestiges of autonomy. Between them, the bank's reserves and the
   resources of the National Development Fund total around $50 billion--a
   similar amount to this year's official budget.

   So even if oil prices remain below their 2006 levels, nobody expects
   the bottom to fall out of the economy this year. But Mr Chvez needs
   not just to maintain public spending but to increase it if he is to
   satisfy the popular expectations he has whipped up at home, and to
   fulfil the pledges of aid he has made to friends abroad. In the past
   few weeks alone, he has promised to build 200,000 houses in Nicaragua
   and loan $1 billion to Ecuador, for example.

   The economy is showing some signs of strain. The inflation rate, at
   17% last year, was the highest in Latin America--even though
   Venezuela's currency is overvalued. Despite the oil bonanza, the
   government has run a fiscal deficit in most of Mr Chvez's time in
   power: this year that deficit may reach 3% of GDP.

   The president seems to be aware of the problems. He has urged OPEC to
   cut oil output further, to set a floor for benchmark prices of $50. On
   January 21st he announced his intention to increase petrol prices for
   the first time since he came to power. Petrol costs less than 5 cents
   a litre in Venezuela at the official exchange rate, but raising the
   price is politically sensitive. The government also plans tax
   increases. Officials insist that plans to nationalise the
   telecommunications and electricity industries, announced last month,
   will not trigger a fall in tax revenues, though opponents doubt that.

   The oil price has crept back up over the past fortnight after a sharp
   fall. It may well rise further. Even if it does not, few expect the
   benchmark price to fall to its levels of 2003, let alone 1999. But if
   prices stay at their levels of the past month, some economists believe
   that Venezuela's economy will struggle. "There's a sustainability
   problem," says Luis Zambrano, an economist at the Catholic University
   in Caracas. "More and more spending is needed to produce a
   [percentage] point of economic growth." What will lubricate the
   revolution when the oil bonanza ends?


   An early foray into telephone diplomacy


   HE IS a busy man, what with the White House to win, but Barack Obama
   can still make time to lend his niceness to places that need it.
   Kenya, the home of his late father, is in turmoil. The president, Mwai
   Kibaki, says he won a surprise re-election last month. The opposition
   leader, Raila Odinga, says Mr Kibaki cheated.

   There is ample evidence of foul play. In several places, on-the-spot
   counts showed Mr Odinga winning, but the results were changed before
   being announced nationally. Mr Odinga's tribe, the Luo, are furious.
   Many have taken up arms. At least 500 people have been killed, some of
   them while seeking shelter in churches, and 200,000-plus have fled
   their homes.

   In between campaign stops, Mr Obama is trying to help. He broadcast an
   appeal for calm on Voice of America. "Despite irregularities in the
   vote tabulation, now is not the time to throw [Kenya's] strong
   democracy away," he said. "Now is the time for this terrible violence
   to end." He spoke with Mr Odinga by telephone, urging him to meet Mr
   Kibaki without preconditions to effect a reconciliation. He has
   apparently tried to get in touch with Mr Kibaki, too, but without
   success.

   Mr Obama's father was of the same tribe as the opposition leader. Mr
   Odinga even claims to be related to the Obamas, though Mr Obama has
   not confirmed this. Mr Obama's loyalties, however, are post-tribal: he
   wants, characteristically, both sides to sit down and talk about it.
   Kenyans will at least listen to him. They usually prefer their leaders
   somewhat older than Mr Obama, but they will make an exception for
   someone who still has a chance of soon becoming the most powerful man
   in the world. Whether he can bring peace in his spare time is another
   question, though. Luos joke bitterly that America will have a Luo
   president before Kenya does.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

                             Room for only one

   Far from Iowa, two would-be presidents are biding their time 


   AS THE other candidates battled frostbite and each other in Iowa, two
   men were conspicuously absent. Rudy Giuliani was planning to be in
   Florida on January 3rd, the day of Iowa's first-in-the-nation
   caucuses. Michael Bloomberg, having popped over to Bali before
   Christmas to address the UN conference on climate change, is about to
   give another big speech on January 7th in Oklahoma, this time about
   non-partisan politics.

   Neither man had any chance of winning Iowa. Mr Giuliani is too
   metropolitan for Iowa Republicans, with his divorces, his tolerance of
   abortion and his easy friendship with gays. Mr Bloomberg is not even
   on the ballot. Yet both men could shape the presidential race.

   Mr Giuliani may be weak in the early-voting states, but he leads
   national polls of Republican voters, albeit increasingly narrowly. His
   lead may disappear entirely if early victories lend momentum to a
   rival. But, for now, he is still the man to beat.

   His strategy is a risky one. He is not quite sitting out the first six
   races, but he hints that they hardly matter. If he does well in Iowa,
   Wyoming, New Hampshire, Michigan, Nevada or South Carolina, fine. But
   the first race that counts, his people suggest, will be on January
   29th in Florida, where he leads. Brent Seaborn, a strategist for Mr
   Giuliani, predicts that his boss will win the Sunshine State and come
   to "Super-Duper Tuesday" (February 5th, when more than 20 states will
   vote), with more delegates lined up behind him than any other
   candidate. Mr Giuliani would then rely on his popularity in big
   coastal states such as New York and California, where voters are less
   easily shocked by his private life, to propel him to the nomination.

   This is optimistic, but not absurd. The Republican field is
   splintered. If the early primaries produce no clear front-runner, Mr
   Giuliani's national celebrity could see him through. He is a deft
   campaigner, admitting to flaws, while sparing audiences details
   (adultery, dodgy friends, apparent conflicts of interest) that they
   can look up on the web. He trumpets his two strengths: crime fell
   sharply while he was mayor of New York, and he kept cool when the city
   was attacked by terrorists. Often, he conflates these into a single
   unified theory of toughness in the face of bad guys. The world is
   dangerous, as Benazir Bhutto's assassination has reminded voters.

   But his steel is starting to look tarnished. To compensate for his
   social liberalism, which repels many Republican primary voters, he has
   hammed up his tough-guy act to such an extreme that it could harm him
   in a general election. Swing voters mostly feel that eight years of
   bellicosity is plenty. And although his mix of fiscal conservatism and
   social liberalism appeals to many, even social liberals gag at reports
   that he billed taxpayers for security expenses incurred during
   adulterous trysts. The recent indictment on corruption charges of
   Bernard Kerik, whom he appointed as New York's police chief, is not
   helping either.

   If Mr Giuliani fizzles, Mr Bloomberg is a likely beneficiary. He is a
   less colourful figure. Whereas Mr Giuliani rescued New York from
   dysfunction, his successor as mayor has merely continued to run it
   well. Like Mr Giuliani, Mr Bloomberg is fiscally conservative and
   socially liberal. But unlike Mr Giuliani, he is a billionaire, so he
   can fund his own (undeclared and semi-denied) presidential campaign.

   Rather than stretching uncomfortably to woo primary-voting activists,
   Mr Bloomberg can be himself. If he runs, it will be as a moderate
   third-party candidate. Unlike many Republicans, he favours swift
   action to curb climate change. Unlike the main Democrats, he admits
   that a carbon tax, though unpopular, would be the best way to do it.
   As a third-party candidate, he could offer sensible policies on
   immigration, gun control, poverty and more.

   If Hillary Clinton and Mr Giuliani are the Democratic and Republican
   nominees, there will scarcely be room for another New Yorker in the
   race. But if one party picks a base-pleasing populist (say, Mike
   Huckabee or John Edwards), Mr Bloomberg may see open ground for a
   pragmatic centrist. Even as he touts the virtues of non-partisanship
   in Oklahoma, he will be keeping a close eye on Iowa.


   How much will the Bay State's plan for universal health coverage cost?

   WHEN Massachusetts forged ahead with a plan for universal health
   coverage for all its citizens, many were sceptical. It will soon be
   clear whether the doubters were right. The plan faces its first big
   test this month: uninsured residents must sign up for a health plan by
   the end of the year or be fined.

   Early signs suggest the plan is going well. Some critics had argued
   that it would not achieve universal coverage because the penalties for
   non-compliance (about $220, though this figure will rise sharply next
   year) were too small, but this week state officials announced that
   some 300,000 had already signed up. That is roughly half of the
   state's uninsured population, reckoned to be between 500,000 and
   700,000. However, many of those who have recently signed up are poorer
   people whose new insurance is being subsidised, so the real test is
   yet to come.

   Another worry has been that the scheme will "crowd out" the private
   sector by encouraging employers to drop coverage. Here too the
   evidence is positive, though tentative. Several surveys of employers
   suggest that very few so far (only 3% according to one poll) have
   stopped covering their workers.

   The news on cost is less encouraging. Over the long haul, universal
   coverage schemes are supposed to reduce costs (see [3]article).
   Another reason to think cost rises would slow down under the
   Massachusetts scheme is the "Connector", a government-created and
   partly-subsidised market-place for insurance products that aims to
   beg, bully and badger health-care providers and insurers into
   containing costs.

   That is a fine theory, but in practice, concedes Jonathan Gruber, a
   professor at MIT and an architect of the state's reform plan, "We're
   struggling with this." Next year's insurance premiums are likely to
   rise by 10-12%, confirms James Roosevelt, head of the organisation
   representing the state's health plans. Officials running the new
   health-reform effort this week declared grandly that costs must not
   increase by more than 5% next year--but, as Mr Roosevelt observes,
   that seems "more hopeful than likely". Mr Gruber explains that the
   state can influence rates for those who get subsidies, but says that
   commercial insurers can do pretty much what they like about rates for
   the rest of the population.

   If costs continue to soar, the state will not be able to afford this
   scheme for long, and it will become unpopular. Mindful of the brewing
   storm, the state's insurers are launching a charm offensive. Mr
   Roosevelt's group promises much greater transparency in insurance
   pricing and wants hospitals to do the same. Will that be enough?
   Sunlight is a powerful disinfectant--but it may meet its match in
   health-care inflation.


   A good cause, but a bad policy

   THERE is a new price to be paid for looking at naked women in Texas.
   On January 1st the state's strip clubs began imposing a $5 surcharge
   for each visitor. The "pole tax," as it is commonly called, is
   expected to bring the state an additional $40m in revenue each year.
   Most of the proceeds will go to programmes that support victims of
   sexual assault.

   Helping rape victims is obviously an excellent idea, and the measure
   was passed by the Texas legislature easily last year. But it is
   controversial in some quarters. Club owners, in particular, think they
   are being shaken down and vilified despite providing a perfectly legal
   service, and are already sounding a little defensive. Commercials for
   The Lodge, in Dallas, boast that its customers enjoy "women, manly
   steaks, cigars, and women." In light of the new tax a co-owner has
   noted, rather less laddishly, that the club also raises money for
   charity via car washes. Smaller clubs are worried that their patrons
   cannot or will not pony up five measly dollars, a prediction that may
   prove true but is certainly rather depressing.

   Another gripe is that the tax implies an unfair link between club
   patronage and sexual violence, though no evidence to support this has
   been presented. State representative Ellen Cohen, who sponsored the
   legislation, argued that connecting the two is fair because both strip
   clubs and sex crimes objectify women. And apparently a majority of
   Texas legislators were comfortable with that explanation. In 2004, in
   contrast, Governor Rick Perry proposed taxing strip clubs to pay for
   public schools. The idea was considered inappropriate and it went
   nowhere.

   Such targeted taxes seem to be in vogue at the moment. Gavin Newsom,
   the mayor of San Francisco, recently proposed that retailers pay a fee
   for selling sugar-laden fizzy drinks. The revenue would fund a city
   initiative to encourage healthy eating and exercise. Last year's
   proposed expansion of the State Children's Health Insurance Programme
   would have been funded by increased tobacco taxes (though the
   connection here also seems rather a stretch, since not that many
   children smoke; George Bush vetoed it anyway). In Wisconsin, a state
   legislator wants to raise more money for the juvenile criminal justice
   system via a tax on video games.

   Critics say that all of these measures are punitive. Louche behaviour,
   after all, is not a crime. But its practitioners have had a hard time
   making their case. Last month opponents of the pole tax filed for a
   temporary injunction against it. They argued that nude dancing is a
   type of expression and that its free exercise should therefore not be
   inhibited. The judge was unimpressed.


   The Manchurian candidate
   "The Muslims have said they plan on destroying the US from the inside
   out, what better way to start than at the highest level--through the
   president of the United States, one of their own!!!!"

   Two volunteers for the Clinton campaign have resigned over forwarding
   e-mails saying that Barack Obama is a Muslim sleeper-agent.
   [3]Politico.com. December 5th 

   School days
   "I know that folks were rifling through my kindergarten papers. I'm
   going to be disclosing them tomorrow. It will show that I experimented
   with colouring outside the lines. I was pulling on pigtails."

   Mr Obama continues to make hay with the Clinton campaign's excesses.
   [4]ABCNews.com, December 12th

   Free will
   "I'm not here to tell you what to think. I got some sense. I know the
   difference between a book club and this seminal moment in our
   history."

   Oprah Winfrey campaigning last weekend for Mr Obama. 

   Job seeker
   "Since I'm from Georgia, I'll say the opposite of Sherman...If
   drafted, I would run, and if nominated, I would serve."

   Newt Gingrich wants to be vice-president. "This Week", ABC, December
   9th 

   Food pyramid
   "Carrots. I just don't like carrots. I banned them from the governor's
   mansion when I was governor of Arkansas because I could."

   Mike Huckabee discusses his most disliked food. Other candidates are
   equally opposed to vegetables; mushrooms are particularly unpopular.
   Associated Press, December 6th 

   Life's disappointments
   "Voters are going to say, `I want to get my Christmas shopping done.'
   They're going to go to their mailboxes hoping for an invitation to a
   cocktail party, and instead get a campaign mailing."

   Donna Brazile, a Democratic strategist, on why most campaigns will
   take a break over Christmas. Des Moines Register, December 10th 

   Southern hospitality
   "He's masquerading as a good ole boy."

   Jim Hanks, chairman of the South Carolina League of the South, objects
   to Tennessean Fred Thompson's lack of support for reintroducing the
   Confederate flag. [5]CNN.com, December 5th

   Insane clown posse
   "These people are crazy--crazy in a good way."

   Ron Paul's son on his father's supporters. [6]Washingtonpost.com,
   December 10th 


   As voters weary of the front-runners, what a chance for Al Gore

   ENOUGH already. The primaries are 11 months away and the race is
   already growing stale. The citizens of Iowa and New Hampshire are
   longing for the day when they can visit Denny's without having to meet
   Hillary or Rudy. And the press is busy recycling the same old stories.
   Can Barack Obama run for president and give up smoking at the same
   time? Will Hillary hand her Senate seat to Bill if she wins? Is
   America ready for a Mormon president? Or a black? Or a woman? Or a man
   who once dressed as Marilyn Monroe?

   There is no shortage of money or ideas: the candidates' treasure
   chests are overflowing and the think-tanks churn out policy papers.
   But there is a severe shortage of attention. People will not be able
   to watch the same soap opera, endlessly repeated on 24-hour cable news
   and pored over in the blogosphere, for months on end without getting
   sick of the main characters.

   Which means that there is a huge opportunity for somebody to arrive
   late and steal the show. The late entrant will not only have the
   advantage of being a fresh face. He or she could also change the whole
   dynamic of the race, gaining enough momentum to storm through Iowa and
   New Hampshire.

   Step forward Al Gore. Mr Gore has enough of a national profile to
   command instant credibility. He has rich friends to finance him. He
   will also command plenty of attention in his own right over the next
   few months: his film "An Inconvenient Truth" could win an Oscar for
   best documentary on Sunday, and he may be up for the Nobel peace prize
   in the autumn.

   Mr Gore is the ideal candidate for the Democratic stalwarts who turn
   out to vote in the primaries. He came out strongly against invading
   Iraq. He has spent the past six years warning the world about global
   warming. And he was robbed of victory in 2000 by the man whom the
   Democrats loathe above all others. What better way of wiping out the
   Bush era than replacing him with the man who should have been
   president?

   Mr Gore is adamant that he does not want to run again. But will he be
   able to resist? It would be one of the great dramas of American
   political history. And James Carville, keen observer of politicians,
   says that, for them, running for president is rather like having sex
   for normal people: it is not something that you do just once if you
   have any say in the matter.


   An annoying self-publicist may enliven a debate about America's health
   system

   WILL America solve its health-care problems by moving to a
   government-run health system like the one in Britain? The notion seems
   absurd given the spectacular failure of efforts by Bill and Hillary
   Clinton to promote the idea over a decade ago. Even Mrs Clinton
   herself no longer advocates Hillarycare.

   Yet the issue will not go away: politicians as different as Arnold
   Schwarzenegger, Mitt Romney and John Edwards keep plugging away at it.
   And now there is "Sicko", the latest documentary by Michael Moore, a
   filmmaker known for tackling thorny political issues with leftist
   vigour. The film, which featured at the Cannes Film Festival last
   weekend, goes on general release in June--and its subject is the
   inequities of America's health system.

   Mr Moore, true to form, has orchestrated publicity stunts that would
   make the circus promoter P.T. Barnum proud. In making his film, he
   took a group of people who had volunteered to help after the attacks
   of September 11th, 2001, but who could not get proper health care
   afterward, to Cuba. He first tried getting them help at the American
   military base at Guantnamo Bay, where officials claim accused
   al-Qaeda detainees are getting outstanding free health care, but was
   rebuffed; he then took the Americans to Havana, where Cuban
   authorities were only too happy to provide treatment for a pittance.

   Fred Thompson, a former senator and a Republican presidential
   aspirant, has publicly denounced this as pandering to the thuggish
   regime of Fidel Castro. When Mr Moore responded that the senator was a
   hypocrite because he is a fan of Cuban cigars, Mr Thompson released a
   video of himself chomping a stogie and telling the filmmaker to
   consider a mental asylum. Mr Moore claims he is now the target of a
   federal investigation because his trip violated the trade embargo of
   Cuba. The film's producers declare breathlessly that they have whisked
   a copy of the film's master negative overseas to avoid confiscation by
   the evil authorities.

   Ghastly though he may be, Mr Moore has had uncommon success with his
   previous films ("Fahrenheit 9/11" earned over $200m), and "Sicko"
   looks to be another conversation starter. At least some of the antics
   will have been worth enduring if they lead to a proper debate on
   health reform, including the merits and failings of single-payer
   systems.


   California enters the fight for universal health care

   AFTER almost a year of difficult surgery, during which it occasionally
   seemed dead, California's health-care reform plan abruptly leapt out
   of bed on December 17th. Arnold Schwarzenegger, the state's Republican
   governor, agreed a bill with the Democratic majority in the
   legislature that would dramatically widen health coverage. There were
   smiles of relief all round; but the bill's prognosis is bleak.

   Like a similar but more modest measure that came into effect in
   Massachusetts this year, the bill requires almost all Californians to
   have health insurance, beginning in 2010. It also extends health
   coverage to the children of illegal immigrants. There will be
   subsidies for those who earn less than two-and-a-half times the
   federal poverty level, or $42,925 for a family of three, and tax
   credits for the more affluent. This will be paid for by a tax on
   businesses that fail to provide health insurance, a levy on hospitals
   and yet more taxes for that much put-upon group, smokers.

   These levies are not, however, spelled out in the measure that passed
   this week. Since any bill that included a tax hike would have been
   blocked by California's ornery Republicans, that part must be approved
   directly by the voters next November--assuming the bill first clears
   the state Senate. Opposition, from insurance companies, small
   businesses and tobacco firms, will be fierce and well-funded.

   California's move will affect the presidential campaign. The
   Democratic candidates Hillary Clinton and John Edwards have proposed
   similar reforms, which now have a bipartisan stamp (Barack Obama is
   against forcing people to take out health insurance). Mrs Clinton has
   already borrowed Mr Schwarzenegger's line that the current system, in
   which many of the uninsured receive free health care in emergency
   rooms, is a "hidden tax".

   One problem with the bill is that it assumes health-care costs can be
   kept in check. That has not been the case so far: between 1960 and
   2005 the share of national income gobbled up by health more than
   tripled. This week the Congressional Budget Office pleaded for a more
   hard-headed approach to assessing the costs and benefits of new drugs
   and medical procedures. Britain does that rather well. But Catherine
   DeAngelis, a physician who edits the Journal of the American Medical
   Association, bristles that this risks turning her profession into a
   "business".


   Hillary Clinton no longer looks inevitable 




   ON December 8th Hillary Clinton received what should have been a boost
   from Andrew Young, one of the giants of the civil-rights movement. Mr
   Young pronounced that he wants her chief rival, Barack Obama, to be
   president--but in 2016, not 2008.

   The 46-year-old Mr Obama is just too green about the gills for the
   highest office in the land, Mr Young argued, and lacks a network of
   political allies that could sustain him in times of trouble. "To put a
   brother in there by himself is to set him up for crucifixion," he
   said. But he could not resist adding a kicker. "Bill [Clinton] is
   every bit as black as Barack--he's probably gone with more black women
   than Barack."

   Mr Young's faux pas is a small symptom of the Clinton campaign's
   troubles. Mrs Clinton's commanding leads in the make-or-break states
   of Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina have evaporated. And the
   much-vaunted Hillary machine is looking, for the moment at least, more
   Heath Robinson than Vorsprung durch Technik. The bad news keeps
   coming, and even the good news has a way of turning bad.

   Mr Obama is proving to be Mrs Clinton's perfect nightmare. He has not
   only neutralised her most compelling claim for attention--the first
   black president is a more momentous prospect than the first woman
   president. He has also shaped the race. His early entry into the
   contest forced Mrs Clinton to declare her candidacy sooner than she
   had planned. His fund-raising prowess forced her to make much more use
   of her husband than she had intended. Last weekend stadium-sized
   crowds turned up to watch Oprah Winfrey, the only woman in America who
   can turn "Anna Karenina" into a bestseller, stumping for Mr Obama. Mrs
   Clinton was reduced to touring Iowa with her daughter, Chelsea, and
   her mother, Dorothy.

   Mrs Clinton's problems have forced her to abandon the high horse of
   inevitability for the boxing ring. Yet so far she has proved to be no
   great shakes as a pugilist. She excused her poor performance in a
   debate in Philadelphia by accusing her fellow (male) candidates of
   "piling on". This feebly suggested that she wanted to be given special
   treatment because of her gender. Then she threw a succession of wild
   punches that made her look like an amateur. The Clinton campaign's
   decision to dredge up the fact that Mr Obama had written an essay in
   kindergarten on how he wanted to be president was particularly
   misguided. What sort of person quotes a kindergarten essay against a
   rival?

   Mrs Clinton's recent troubles have raised questions about what is
   arguably her most important selling-point, her competence. The
   Clintonistas have always presented her as a woman who is "tough
   enough" to deal with anything that is thrown at her--trained in the
   Clinton wars of the 1990s and always ready with a counter-punch. She
   is certainly one of America's most accomplished practitioners of the
   politics of personal destruction. But the skills that she perfected
   behind the scenes seem to be far less effective when they are
   practised in the limelight.

   Same old dirty politics

   Mrs Clinton's troubles have also reminded people of what they most
   disliked about the politics of the Clinton-Bush era. "She's run what
   Washington would call a textbook campaign," Mr Obama argues. "But the
   problem is the textbook itself." This is self-serving: all campaigns
   employ the dark arts of polls, story-planting and character
   assassination, and Mr Obama is no exception. But Mrs Clinton is
   vulnerable to the charge that she uses them more than most. She is
   surrounded by veteran pollsters and lobbyists from her husband's
   administration. She seems to delight in political warfare--"Now the
   fun part starts," she stupidly declared about her battle with Mr
   Obama. And her campaign seems addicted to spin. Mr Clinton did his
   wife no favours when he recently declared, despite evidence to the
   contrary, that he had opposed the Iraq war from the start.

   Mrs Clinton's style inevitably raises questions about her character.
   Discuss her with voters and the same words keep cropping
   up--"disciplined", "robotic", "cold", "scripted", "calculating" (if
   childhoods are to be invoked, even her mother once said that "she just
   does everything she has to do to get along and get ahead"). Large
   numbers of voters regard her as slippery and untrustworthy. This
   inevitably raises questions about her electability. Mrs Clinton
   sometimes manages to lose in head-to-head polls against leading
   Republicans, despite a tidal wave of anti-Republican sentiment. A
   recent Gallup poll showed that, with 47% of people favourably disposed
   to her and 50% unfavourably disposed, she had the highest "negatives"
   of any candidate in the race, Democratic or Republican. Those
   negatives are particularly high in swing states such as Colorado.

   None of this means that the former first lady's goose is cooked. Mrs
   Clinton is still well ahead in national polls and in the often
   overlooked early state of Nevada. Americans do not necessarily feel
   that they need to like their presidents. Richard Nixon won a
   resounding victory in 1972. Nearly as many Americans disliked Bill
   Clinton as liked him when he ran for the White House. And the (just
   about) Republican front-runner, Rudy Giuliani, is hardly a likeable
   chap. Ed Koch once wrote a book about his fellow mayor simply entitled
   "Giuliani: Nasty Man".

   But Mrs Clinton's problems are slowly shifting the calculus at the
   heart of the Democratic race. Hitherto most Democrats have calculated,
   or perhaps been resigned to thinking, that she is the safest bet. The
   young Mr Obama might deliver a spectacular victory, but he might
   equally well flame out spectacularly. Mrs Clinton may always have high
   negatives but, in an anti-Republican year, she would be wily and
   experienced enough to take on the Republican machine and eke out a
   victory in the electoral college. The past few weeks have made Mr
   Obama look a bit less risky--and Mrs Clinton a lot less safe.


   For presidential candidates, the holiday season will not be restful 




   EVEN those who dislike Hillary Clinton want to hitch a ride in her
   helicopter, inevitably dubbed "the Hillacopter". With a dozen
   presidential candidates criss-crossing Iowa to scramble for support
   before the caucuses on January 3rd, everyone following them wants to
   be in several places at once. And the roads are icy.

   Parking is like curling. The main roads have been salted well, but not
   perfectly. Your correspondent spun once on black ice and saw three
   accidents. After dark, the oncoming traffic includes farm trucks with
   only one headlight. Mrs Clinton only has to dodge heckles.

   The locals grumble more about the weather than politics. In a coffee
   shop in Creston, a small town south-west of Des Moines, the customers
   form two groups: those whose electricity has been restored since a
   recent storm, and those who are still waiting. "We're living like
   cavemen," chuckles one of the staff.

   When talk does turn to politics, the mood is disgruntled. Between
   mouthfuls of syrup-soaked pancake, Dalyne Gaede laments that he can no
   longer find work. He used to help make sophisticated machinery:
   self-service cash registers for Wal-Mart and trash cans that say
   "thank you". But then he needed back surgery, and suddenly no one will
   hire him because his health insurance is too expensive.

   A triumph in Iowa can kick-start a candidate towards his party's
   nomination. Yet turnout is usually low. Out of a voting-age population
   of 2m, only 130,000 caucused in 2004. More will probably show up this
   time because both parties are competing and the races are close. On
   the Democratic side, Mrs Clinton, John Edwards and Barack Obama all
   have a shot. Mr Obama is slightly ahead, but Iowa polls are habitually
   unreliable. Among the Republicans, Mike Huckabee has opened a sizeable
   lead over Mitt Romney, but with his new prominence has come
   unaccustomed scrutiny.

   Every candidate faces a holiday season without rest. Most will
   campaign until as close to Christmas Day as they can without
   interrupting the festivities. The Democrats especially are working
   harder than ever, inflicting their friends, families and celebrity
   endorsers on hapless Iowans.

   Besides firing up their existing supporters and courting undecided
   voters, they are also trying to persuade their rivals' supporters to
   make them their second choice. Under Iowa's caucus system, voters will
   gather in some 2,000 small precincts and discuss the candidates before
   selecting their first choice. Under the Democrats' version (though not
   the Republicans') those whose candidates fail to win more than 15% or
   so of the votes in a precinct are then invited to transfer their vote
   to another, "viable", candidate. This takes time, so only the most
   motivated take part.

   Each candidate has a different style. Mrs Clinton leads her troops
   through the snow with such discipline that, had Napoleon copied it, he
   might have conquered Russia. Other Democrats' campaign staff are happy
   to answer questions. In Des Moines, Jim Mowrer, an Iraq veteran, says
   he supports Joe Biden because he is the only Democrat with a plan to
   quit Iraq without leaving chaos behind. The Clintonistas beside him
   say they are not authorised to talk to the press.

   At Mrs Clinton's campaign office in Creston, the lone staffer consults
   his boss by telephone. His boss tells him not to reveal anything. Not
   even his personal reasons for liking Mrs Clinton? No. Not even where a
   guy can get a cup of coffee in Creston? The staffer hesitates before
   divulging this potentially sensitive information.

   At Mr Obama's campaign office in the same town, the welcome is warmer:
   a seat, a cup of coffee and a list of local Obama-ites to call. Karl
   Knock, the chairman of a local bank, says he likes the openness of Mr
   Obama's campaign. The candidate does not simply issue orders; he asks
   questions. America needs a new leader who is not entrenched in old
   battles, he says.

   Mr Edwards, a former trial lawyer and vice-presidential nominee, is
   running the angriest Democratic campaign. Though his manner is smooth
   and smiley, he rails without cease against the greedy corporations
   that supposedly make ordinary Americans' lives miserable. He lies
   third in the polls in Iowa, but his tireless stumping in remote
   hamlets might conceivably allow him to snatch a victory.

   Mrs Clinton is still the woman to beat, however. Other candidates
   pander. She does her homework and then micropanders. For voters who
   fret about the environment and globalisation, she praises solar power.
   Someone has to screw those solar panels on the roof, and that's a job
   that can't be outsourced, she tells a crowd in a fire station in
   Shenandoah, near the Nebraska border.

   Are you worried about violent video games? So is Mrs Clinton. They can
   lead, she says, to horrors such as the recent massacre in a mall in
   Omaha. Mrs Clinton knows the name of the local man who was injured
   there, of course. She's really intelligent, agree several members of
   the audience. But one couple say Bill Richardson, the governor of New
   Mexico, is more qualified. A paranoid local lawyer mutters about Vince
   Foster, a friend of Mrs Clinton's who killed himself in 1993 but whom
   conspiracy theorists say was murdered.

   The Republicans' Mrs Clinton is Mitt Romney, an ex-governor of
   Massachusetts. He, too, faces a younger, more charismatic threat. Mr
   Romney gives PowerPoint presentations; Mr Huckabee airs an ad wishing
   Iowans a merry Christmas.

   Mr Huckabee has ethical problems (he accepted a ton of gifts when he
   was governor of Arkansas), eccentric policies (scrap income taxes,
   make America self-sufficient in food) and a feeble grasp of world
   affairs. But his verbal dexterity and years as a Baptist preacher
   allow him to dodge almost any awkward question with a Biblical
   allusion. He is joyfully backed by evangelicals and home-schoolers.
   Eric Woolson, his campaign manager in Iowa, cannot understand why the
   media harp on about his strong support among those who go to church
   every week. "Everyone I know goes to church every week," he says.

   A loss in Iowa could cripple Mr Romney, so he is fighting back hard.
   His television spots accuse Mr Huckabee of being soft on crime (his
   faith led him to pardon many criminals when he was governor) and
   illegal immigration. This is risky. Iowans don't like negative
   campaigning, says Cary Covington, a politics professor at the
   University of Iowa. Meanwhile, Rudy Giuliani and John McCain, two
   Republicans with no hope in Iowa but national reputations, are biding
   their time.

   For both parties, a bitter struggle looms. But actual violence has so
   far been mild. Dan Holman, who follows Mrs Clinton around waving a
   gruesome anti-abortion banner, was allegedly poked in the ribs with a
   broom handle by an elderly householder who accused him of standing on
   his property. But Mr Holman recovered and is still haranguing his
   nemesis.




   Reforming America's health-care system is a thorny election issue

   IT IS obvious to anyone that the patient is ill. But the physicians
   agree on little else: not the underlying cause, certainly not the
   appropriate course of treatment and least of all which among them is
   best qualified to administer it. As they argue, the patient just gets
   sicker.

   Health care, along with the economy in general, immigration and the
   whole alarming nexus of war, terror and security is, according to
   pretty much every poll, one of the issues that American voters
   consider most important. And next year, in both the primaries and the
   general election, it will have particular resonance. Iraq may even
   fade as an election subject, if the number of Americans killed in
   action continues to decline as a result of the "surge" of troops into
   the area around Baghdad. Meanwhile, uncertainties about the economy
   tend to feed through into a preoccupation with health care. A majority
   of Americans (around 54% last year, according to the Kaiser Family
   Foundation, a Washington, DC, think-tank) get their tax-exempt health
   insurance through their employers, so losing a job often means losing
   cover. Even for those who remain in work, tightening market conditions
   are forcing employers to downgrade the insurance they offer.

   But when it comes to health care--as opposed to the economy, or
   security--voters are at least being offered clear choices. All the
   Democratic candidates, for instance, and none of the Republicans, are
   proposing some version of universal health coverage in an attempt to
   end the anomaly whereby some 47m people, a sixth of the population of
   the world's most powerful nation, have no health insurance. A
   YouGov/Polimetrix poll for The Economist this week shows that half of
   all voters would like to see everyone get coverage, even if that means
   a tax increase, with only 36% opposed (see chart). On the campaign
   trail in New Hampshire recently John Edwards, a Democrat, won waves of
   applause every time he threatened to take away the health insurance of
   members of Congress if they did not provide something similar for all
   Americans.

   There is, however, no consensus among Democrats on how to achieve
   universal cover. In fact, health has become a lively battleground in
   the increasingly edgy war between Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama--so
   much so that Robert Reich, who was labour secretary in Bill Clinton's
   administration, publicly rebuked her this week, adding that he thinks
   Mr Obama's model for reform is better than hers. Mrs Clinton (along
   with Mr Edwards, the third-ranked Democrat, but unlike Mr Obama) has
   proposed a detailed plan that relies on a "mandate"--a legal
   requirement that everyone have an approved form of insurance, just as
   they are required to have if they drive a car.

   The idea is to make sure that younger people, who may feel they are
   unlikely to get ill and can do without cover, are required to join the
   insurance pool, making it healthier and supposedly bringing down
   premiums. They will also be more likely to get preventive treatment at
   an early stage if they do get ill, rather than becoming expensive
   emergency cases later on.

   Mr Obama's supporters contend that there are problems with this model.
   First, people often simply ignore the mandate--usually because they
   cannot afford health insurance. Subsidies are to be made available
   under the Clinton and Edwards plans: but they will not cover everyone.
   And independent voices like Robert Reischauer's at the Urban
   Institute, another Washington think-tank, complain that many of the
   complexities in both these plans have yet to be worked out. Who will
   resolve disputes, of which there are certain to be many, between
   patients and government-approved insurance providers? What if people
   default on their payments? And will costs really come down? The
   experience in the only state to run a universal mandate so far,
   Massachusetts, has not been wholly positive (see [3]article).

   And, of course, mandates are perceived as bossy, which is why
   Republicans, in particular, hate them. Mr Obama's refusal to prescribe
   one may serve him well with centrist voters with bad memories of Mrs
   Clinton's first attempt at health-care reform in 1993-94, a political
   disaster on an epic scale. Mr Obama's plan focuses on providing a
   larger pot of cash to help the uninsured take out insurance, rather
   than trying to force them to do it.

   To Republicans, the Democrats' insistence on concentrating on
   universal care is perplexing. Of the 47m uninsured, perhaps 10m are
   illegal immigrants. Of the others, many will be younger people who
   simply choose not to have insurance. Others are only uninsured
   temporarily. Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts who set
   up its universal health scheme, does not want to extend it to the
   whole country now that he is running for the Republican presidential
   nomination rather than election in a liberal state. Arnold
   Schwarzenegger, California's Republican governor, favours mandates;
   but he is not running for the top job.

   Republicans prefer to concentrate on the cost side of health
   insurance, which makes sense. Health-care costs have risen, on
   average, 2.5 percentage points faster than GDP annually for four
   decades. That means, among other things, that the costs of the
   government-funded medical programmes--Medicare for the elderly and
   Medicaid for the poor--will bust the budget unless they are radically
   reformed. The Republicans further charge that Democratic plans to stop
   insurers excluding people with pre-existing medical conditions will
   hugely increase the cost of premiums.

   Republicans focus much more closely than the Democrats do on using
   market mechanisms to bring down costs. John McCain, for instance,
   suggests allowing more competition across state borders. Along with
   Rudy Giuliani and Mr Romney, he also favours a much wider use of tax
   deductions. This would allow more people than just those lucky enough
   to have jobs that offer health insurance to benefit from what is, in
   effect, a large government subsidy. Mr Giuliani, for instance, would
   allow those without employer-provided insurance a tax deduction of
   $15,000 to help buy it.

   Voters think cost is a bigger problem than coverage. But none of the
   Republicans is stressing health to the same extent as the Democrats
   are. Maybe that is why our poll shows almost twice as many people
   prefer the Democrats on the issue.


   America's next president might, conceivably, be a Mormon. What does
   that mean?

   NEAR the edge of Temple Square in Salt Lake City is an unobtrusive
   statue of a man pulling a wooden handcart, with his family walking
   beside him. It commemorates a trek more gruelling than the tourists
   who gawp at it can imagine.

   The early Mormons were not popular. They formed an exclusive,
   polygamous community with a militia and territorial ambitions. The
   governor of Missouri, Lilburn Boggs, called for them to be
   "exterminated or driven from the state". Their prophet, Joseph Smith,
   was shot dead by a lynch mob in 1844. After his murder, his followers
   embarked on a great exodus.

   Some set off in a wagon train and founded a city by the Great Salt
   Lake in what is now Utah. Others followed. The poorest of them pulled
   handcarts from Iowa to Salt Lake City--1,300 miles (2,092km) over
   wilderness and Rocky Mountains. Many died en route. At one point,
   1,000 handcarters got stuck in the snow. Brigham Young, the prophet's
   successor, sent up a mule train from Salt Lake City to rescue them. He
   saved about 800, but the rest starved or froze to death.

   The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (to use its proper
   name) is arguably America's most important indigenous religion. It is
   a universal faith, but also "very American", reckon Richard and Joan
   Ostling, authors of the excellent "Mormon America: The Power and the
   Promise". Its history is entangled with America's. Like American
   settlers, Mormons were pioneers who travelled far for religious
   freedom. Like America, Mormonism has grown fast. Smith had 26,000
   followers when he died. Now he has more than 13m, more than half of
   them outside America. And within America, by one estimate, Mormonism
   is the fourth-largest denomination.

   As it has grown, it has moved towards the mainstream. Its leaders
   renounced polygamy in 1890. Its members, following Smith's view that
   the American constitution was divinely inspired, are patriotic and
   prone to public service. Mormons are also one of the best-behaved
   groups in America. Practising ones shun alcohol, cigarettes and even
   coffee. They work hard, marry, have lots of children and set aside an
   evening each week for quality time with the family. The 53,000
   dark-suited, white-shirted, tie-wearing Mormon missionaries who fish
   for souls around the world can seem like America personified: earnest,
   friendly, optimistic, fond of Jesus and eager to tell you about it.

                                                  [spacer.gif] [gray.gif]
                                                             [spacer.gif]
           Ruthless campaign strategists now have an incentive to slander
                                                                Mormonism
                                                             [spacer.gif]
                                                               [gray.gif]

   Yet many Americans have doubts about Mormonism. Only 53% of non-Mormon
   Americans think Mormons are Christian, despite the words "Jesus
   Christ" in the church's name. Many evangelical Protestants think them
   heretics--the ruder ones regularly heckle Mormon conferences. Some
   secular Americans voice the opposite complaint: that Mormons are too
   pious and too likely to knock on your door.

   Antipathy towards Mormons is rarer among well-educated Americans (64%
   of college graduates have a favourable view of them) and among people
   who actually know a Mormon. But that still leaves a reservoir of
   suspicion. In a recent Pew poll, 25% of Americans said they would be
   less likely to vote for a presidential candidate who was a Mormon.
   Only Muslims and atheists fared worse.

   And that could have political consequences, since one of the leading
   Republican contenders for the presidency in 2008 is a Mormon. Mitt
   Romney is otherwise a strong candidate. He is tall, handsome, clever
   and accomplished. His personal life is impeccable: at 60, he is still
   married to his high-school sweetheart. But he has a big black mark
   against him: his faith.

   He tries to defuse the issue in three ways. First, he quotes John F.
   Kennedy, who said he was running for president not as a Catholic but
   as an American. Second, he draws attention to his wholesome private
   life. And third, he highlights the beliefs Mormons share with other
   Christians, such as that Jesus Christ is the saviour of mankind. This
   month he gave a speech on "Faith in America", recalling the time,
   during the First Continental Congress of 1774, when British troops
   occupied Boston and someone suggested a prayer.

   "There were objections. They were too divided in religious sentiments,
   what with Episcopalians and Quakers, Anabaptists and
   Congregationalists, Presbyterians and Catholics. Then Sam Adams [a
   revolutionary] rose and said he would hear a prayer from anyone of
   piety and good character, as long as they were a patriot. And so
   together they prayed, and together they fought, and together, by the
   grace of God, they founded this great nation." Mr Romney won a
   standing ovation. But one of his rivals for the Republican nomination
   refuses to acknowledge that he is a Christian.

   For Mormons, the Romney candidacy represents both a challenge and an
   opportunity, says Michael Otterson, a church spokesman. The surge of
   media interest gives them a chance to explain their faith to a large
   audience; but campaign strategists now have an incentive to slander
   Mormonism. David Magleby, a political scientist at Brigham Young
   University, suspects that evangelical churches might hold classes on
   "the cult of Mormonism" just before the South Carolina primary.

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

                         Including about his faith

   So what do Mormons believe? In the Bible, to the extent that it is
   "translated correctly"; and also in the Book of Mormon, a text that
   Joseph Smith said he found engraved on thin metal plates after an
   angel named Moroni showed him where to dig. The book reads like a
   pastiche of the King James Bible, and contains some startling
   theology. The story of its origins, however, raises sceptical
   eyebrows.

   It was an ancient text, said Smith, in a language called "Reformed
   Egyptian". He was able to translate it, he said, using a pair of "seer
   stones". He worked in a room divided by a curtain, dictating to a
   scribe who never saw the plates. In all, eight people testified that
   Smith let them see and touch the plates. He later gave them back to
   the Angel Moroni, he said.

   The Book of Mormon describes how Jesus came to the New World after his
   resurrection and preached to native Americans. Parts of the text are
   supposedly a contemporary account of events that took place more than
   1,500 years ago. Yet historians note various anachronisms, such as
   horses, steel and wheat. Neither the archaeological record nor any
   account besides the Book of Mormon suggests their presence in
   pre-Colombian America.

   Most religions make extraordinary claims. What distinguishes Mormonism
   from more established faiths is that its founding revelations occurred
   quite recently. Perhaps because of this, they have been vigorously
   challenged. For example, in 1835, Smith bought some ancient Egyptian
   papyruses. One, he said, had been written by Abraham, the Jewish
   patriarch. He translated it and published it as the Book of Abraham.
   At the time, no one in America could read hieroglyphics, but when
   professional Egyptologists first saw facsimiles of Smith's papyrus,
   they recognised them as fragments from an ancient Egyptian Book of the
   Dead that bore no relation to his translation.

   Critics dismiss Smith as a charming fraud. The Mormon church retorts
   that an ill-educated farm boy such as he could not simply have made up
   so sublime a work as the Book of Mormon. Ultimately, the best way to
   be sure it is true is to pray for guidance, advises the church's
   website.

   Some liberal Mormons, unable to swallow the whole story literally,
   believe that Smith was divinely inspired but think it unimportant to
   dwell on the historical details surrounding his revelations. Some
   sympathetic non-Mormons also admire him. Harold Bloom, a literary
   critic, describes Smith as "an authentic religious genius, unique in
   our national history." Mark Twain, less charitably, called the Book of
   Mormon "chloroform in print".

   The church Smith started is strictly hierarchical. At the top is the
   president, who is considered a prophet. Advising him are two other
   members of the "First Presidency", beneath which are 12 apostles.
   Appointments to the top ranks of the church are for life. Since
   Mormons have few unhealthy vices, their leaders are typically very
   old: Gordon Hinckley, the current president, is 97.

   At lower levels, the church is run by lay volunteers, so it has lower
   running costs than churches with salaried clergy. Since good Mormons
   tithe--that is, they give a tenth of their income to the church--the
   church is colossally wealthy, though its finances are secret. A decade
   ago, the Ostlings estimated its assets at $25-30 billion, but who
   knows? What is certain is that it owns several companies (in
   publishing, food-processing and other wholesome areas), spends a
   fortune helping the victims of floods and famine, and builds new
   temples at an impressive clip.

   The church believes in "continuous revelation", so its doctrines can
   evolve. Take polygamy. Smith had at least 28 wives. He said polygamy
   was God's will. The rest of America was horrified. In 1887 Congress
   passed a law to dissolve the Mormon church. In 1890 the Supreme Court
   upheld it. Shortly afterwards, the church's fourth president banned
   polygamy. Within six years, Utah had won statehood.

   A more recent revelation concerned race. The very early Mormons were
   quite liberal for their time: their neighbours in Missouri complained
   that they did not own slaves. But Mormon scriptures say some harsh
   things about dark-skinned people and until 1978 blacks were barred
   from the priesthood, which, in Mormon parlance, includes more or less
   any devout male over the age of 12. This rule made it tough to win
   converts in, say, Brazil, let alone Africa. But in 1978 a new
   revelation revoked the colour bar.

   Asked why the bar ever existed, Russell Ballard, an apostle, says
   simply: "We don't know." Elder Ballard is pleased that the church is
   now more open: he gushes about its growth in Ghana and Nigeria. And
   though Smith said God told him that other churches were "all wrong",
   Elder Ballard is more tactful. Christians from other churches can keep
   everything they have, he says, but if they become Mormons they will
   get something extra. He stresses the good relations Mormons enjoy with
   other churches, and the values they share. An amiable father of seven
   and grandfather of 43, he is keen to talk about the need to preserve
   the traditional family as American morals crumble.

                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images

   A Mormon marriage, if performed in a temple, is eternal. Husband and
   wife are reunited in heaven, along with their extended family. This
   view of kinship helps explain why Mormons are so interested in
   genealogy. They like to find out who their ancestors were so they can
   perform a baptism for them, and give them the option of becoming
   Mormons posthumously.

   The church's Family History Library in Salt Lake City has the largest
   collection of genealogical data in the world. Mormon researchers have
   amassed 2.4m rolls of microfilm of births, deaths and marriages. They
   collect Chinese clan records and transcribe African oral genealogies.
   (They used to do baptisms for Jewish Holocaust victims, but stopped
   when living Jews complained.) Visitors to the centre can research
   their own ancestry, or simply admire the industry that went into
   discovering that Brigham Young is George Bush's fifth cousin, five
   times removed.

   Wedded as they are to traditional mores, Mormons tend to vote
   Republican. Not always: the leading Democrat in the Senate, Harry
   Reid, is a Mormon. And the church is careful to remain politically
   neutral, except on what it calls moral issues. (It opposes gay
   marriage, for example.) But still, the typical Mormon congressman is
   Chris Cannon, a Utah Republican whose district has the highest number
   of children of any in the country. The American Conservative Union
   gives him a 100% rating. His views on the family are pretty much the
   opposite of those of Nancy Pelosi, the top Democrat in the House of
   Representatives, whose San Francisco district has the lowest number of
   children. But Mr Cannon's conservatism is nuanced: he supports more
   welcoming immigration laws even if it hurts him politically.

   Many Mormons like the idea that one of their own might become
   president. But some have mixed feelings. Ryan Decker, an economics
   student at Brigham Young, frets that Mormon missionaries abroad are
   already often seen as somehow representative of American foreign
   policy. With a Mormon in the White House, that confusion would be
   harder to dispel.

   That would matter, because so many Mormons go on missions for a couple
   of years. Among the devout, especially men, it is expected. They work
   in pairs, partly for safety, partly to keep each other in line.
   Missionaries must live simply, rise early and follow an arduous
   regimen of prayer, study and accosting strangers. Some find it tough;
   others, formative.

   Stephen Covey, a self-help guru whose book "The Seven Habits of Highly
   Effective People" has sold 15m copies, went to Britain as a missionary
   when he was 20. "It helped me learn how to speak in public and
   interact with an audience," he says. He held meetings that sometimes
   drew hundreds, he recalls. Mitt Romney was less successful. As a
   missionary in France, he won "no more than a handful" of converts, he
   told a biographer, Hugh Hewitt.

                                                             Getty Images
                                                             Getty Images

   A century and a half ago, relations between Mormons and their
   neighbours were often bloody. Now, they are pretty good. Sober,
   diligent, nice people are hard to hate. To find tensions between
   Mormons and non-Mormons, you have to go where the two groups compete
   for power.

   Ironically, Mormonism's Mecca is such a place. Mormons are no longer a
   majority in Salt Lake City: with large families, they tend to live in
   the suburbs. So the city now has a non-Mormon mayor, Rocky Anderson.
   He says that relations between the two groups are "quite strained".
   Thanks to a Mormon-dominated city council, drinking laws are finicky.
   If you want to booze without eating, you can either buy extra-watery
   beer or join a private club.

   The mayor cites a long-running dispute with the church over public
   access to a block in the centre of town that it bought from the city a
   few years ago. Tempers have erupted over this, but not fist-fights. Mr
   Anderson also complains that the church opposes gay rights. That is a
   big problem for gay Mormons, but less so for gay gentiles with Mormon
   neighbours. Salt Lake City has been rated one of the 51 "fabulous"
   places to be gay in America.

   Tensions exist within the church, too. Some Mormons find the rules
   hard to live by. Others find the hierarchy stultifying. Paul Toscano,
   a lawyer who was excommunicated for criticising church leaders, says
   that 19th-century Mormonism was to religion what Bach is to music:
   complex and rich. Now, he says, the church is run by corporate types,
   not theologians, and its teachings have become simple and bland, "like
   people dancing the polka".

   Some Mormons just focus on what one might call "cultural
   Mormonism"--clean living and family values--while glossing over what
   the scripture actually says. Mr Toscano recalls that, when he was a
   young man about to go on his mission, he mentioned to his bishop
   (roughly the equivalent of a parish priest) that Joseph Smith was a
   polygamist. The man's face froze in genuine surprise. He said he could
   not let Mr Toscano go on a mission spreading false doctrine. "He was
   an idiot," says Mr Toscano of his former bishop.

   The biggest threat to the church's image comes from the hundreds of
   sects that have splintered from it. The most notorious is led by
   Warren Jeffs, who ruled a remote town on the Utah-Arizona border like
   a priest-king until he was arrested last year for abetting the rape of
   an under-age girl, whom he had ordered to marry her cousin.

   Mr Jeffs told his followers that men could go to heaven only if they
   had multiple wives. So there were never enough women to go around, and
   Mr Jeffs started expelling adolescent boys for minor offences.
   Hundreds of these "Lost Boys" now live in the nearest towns. They can
   usually earn a living, having typically worked on building sites since
   they were ten.

   Kevin (he won't give his surname) says he was thrown out of the sect
   two years ago, when he was 17, for "playing video games, stuff like
   that". He now realises that Mr Jeffs's teachings were "crap". He split
   families. One day he might judge a man unworthy of his wives and
   children and give them all to another man. He banned television, but
   Kevin's dad hid theirs in the closet. Kevin did not watch Mr Jeffs's
   trial, but says: "I hope they convict him of something." They did: he
   got ten years to life.

   Mainstream Mormons are sometimes confused with such groups. But the
   better they are known, the less often it happens. Mr Romney might help
   scotch the association with polygamy: unlike nearly all the other
   serious Republican presidential candidates, he has had only one wife.


   The spooks change their tune, and the politicians recalibrate


   TWO years ago, America's spies assessed with "high confidence" that
   Iran was hell-bent on developing nuclear weapons. This week they did a
   U-turn. With equally high confidence, a new National Intelligence
   Estimate (NIE) concludes that the Iranians halted their covert
   nuclear-weapons programme in 2003, the year America invaded Iraq. The
   good news sparked mayhem in Washington, DC.

   The most hawkish Iran-watchers dismissed it. Given the Islamic
   Republic's history of nuclear cheating, its truckloads of petrodollars
   and the possibility of buying nuclear technology on the black market,
   how can the spooks possibly know that it has stopped trying to make a
   bomb? Norman Podhoretz, an arch-hawk who advises Rudy Giuliani, a
   Republican presidential candidate, speculated that the intelligence
   services were deliberately undermining George Bush to prevent him from
   bombing Iranian nuclear sites.

   Mr Bush, however, welcomed the report as evidence that his spies are
   getting better at figuring out what is going on in one of the world's
   most opaque states. He noted the judgment that Iran stopped its
   weapons programme because of outside pressure, which he considers a
   vindication of his tough approach. And he gave warning that Iran,
   which is still enriching uranium, could restart its bomb-building.

   Many Democrats seized on the report as further evidence that Mr Bush
   is an untrustworthy warmonger. Only weeks ago, noted John Edwards, a
   presidential candidate, Mr Bush was noisily rattling sabres at Iran,
   warning that "If you're interested in avoiding World War Three, it
   seems like you ought to be interested in preventing [Iran] from having
   the knowledge necessary to make a nuclear weapon." Mr Edwards accused
   Mr Bush and his neocon chums of having been "on a march to possible
   war with Iran for a long time". Senator Joe Biden, another would-be
   president, said that Iran "is not a nuclear threat to the United
   States" and vowed that if Mr Bush went to war with Iran without
   congressional approval, he would be impeached.

   Other Democrats were more circumspect. Barack Obama stressed that Iran
   is still a threat to its neighbours. Both he and Hillary Clinton urged
   more direct and energetic diplomacy to make sure that Iran never
   acquires nuclear weapons, and to persuade it to stop destabilising its
   neighbours, such as Iraq.

   It is not obvious whom the report will help at the 2008 election.
   Democrats will benefit from the revelation of another big intelligence
   snafu under Mr Bush. But Republicans may gain if voters feel relieved
   that it has been corrected. Democrats could do well if voters decide
   the world is a safer place than they thought. But Republicans could
   gain if Democrats begin to sound complacent. The NIE report is good
   news, says Al From of the Democratic Leadership Council, a centrist
   group, "but we Democrats have to be careful not to make it better news
   than it is. Iran will still be a threat for the next president."

   Although Mr Bush says the report does not require a change in American
   policy towards Iran, the situation has clearly altered. Hawks in the
   White House, such as the vice-president, are weaker. More cautious
   types, like Condoleezza Rice, the secretary of state, are stronger. It
   is inconceivable that Mr Bush could attack Iran's nuclear facilities
   after his own spies have said it is not making nuclear weapons, says
   Ray Takeyh of the Council on Foreign Relations, a think-tank. Then
   again, if Iran's leaders calculate that they will not be attacked,
   they may be emboldened to make more mischief. And so the arguments
   rage on.


   Let my people go
   "I cannot part the Red Sea, but I believe I can part the red tape."

   Mike Huckabee, a Baptist minister, replying to a question on
   government spending during a Republican presidential debate in Iowa,
   December 12th

   But how do you really feel?
   "Oh my God, no. Really?"

   A Joe Lieberman staffer upon learning that Mr Lieberman, a
   Democrat-turned-independent, is endorsing John McCain (a Republican)
   for president. [3]CNN.com, December 17th 

   Home wrecker or philanderer?
   A poll of women voters revealed that 40% think Judith Giuliani's
   affair with Rudy Giuliani, while he was still married to his previous
   wife, makes her less suitable to be first lady. Only a third think
   Bill Clinton's adultery makes him less suitable to be first laddie. 

   New York Daily News, December 17th 

   But on the other hand
   "I like the fact that his name is Barack Hussein Obama, and that his
   father was a Muslim and that his paternal grandmother is a Muslim."

   Bob Kerrey after endorsing Hillary Clinton. [4]Washingtonpost.com,
   December 16th 

   Never too early to recruit
   "Hillary, I'm looking forward to you advising me, as well."

   Mr Obama parries when asked about his reliance on former Clinton
   advisers while promising change during a Democratic candidates' debate
   in Iowa, December 13th 

   Republicanphobia
   "He seems like a nice charming guy. [Mike Huckabee] doesn't believe in
   evolution and has some nutty views about what it is we should do about
   ending violence in our inner city--we should make sure all of our
   young people are armed. Republicans scare me."

   Elizabeth Edwards, John Edwards's wife, revealing her not-so-secret
   fears in Iowa. [5]ABCNews.com, December 15th 

   Six-million-dollar man
   "Towards the end it was difficult to keep up with all the accounting."

   Ron Paul on raising so much money ($6m in one day) he isn't sure how
   to spend it. [6]CNN.com, December 17th 

   Just to be on the safe side
   "I know you're going to inspect me. You can look inside my mouth if
   you want."

   Mrs Clinton compares a livestock auction to presidential campaigning.
   Associated Press, December 16th


   The Democratic presidential candidates tout their ideas for reform

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

                       Obama listens to the diagnosis

   HOW do you devise a health-care plan that is sensible and centrist,
   yet also stands out from the rest? That is the question faced by all
   the Democratic candidates for the presidency. Health care is second
   only to the war in Iraq among voters' concerns, so everyone with an
   eye on the White House wants a winning answer.

   The three front-runners--Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and John
   Edwards--have all promised to control costs and provide coverage for
   the 47m Americans without health insurance. All three have eschewed
   radical change. Instead, they are jostling over the centre ground: how
   to tweak America's predominantly private health-care system.

   Mr Edwards has long set the pace with an ambitious plan that nods at
   cost control but concentrates on insuring every American by 2012. Not
   unlike reforms already under way in Massachusetts and California, Mr
   Edwards's scheme promises an overhaul of insurance markets, subsidies
   to help poorer people pay their premiums and a legal requirement that
   everyone should buy health insurance.

   In a sop to the party's left, a government health scheme, such as
   Medicare, would compete with private insurers. Employers would have to
   provide their workers with health insurance or pay a tax. But the
   Edwards plan would still cost the federal government some $120 billion
   a year, money that would be raised by rolling back Mr Bush's tax cuts
   for the rich.

   In recent days Mrs Clinton and Mr Obama have begun to flesh out their
   alternatives. Scarred by the disasters of Hillary-care, her failed
   attempt to overhaul America's health system in 1993, Mrs Clinton is
   leery of laying out a Big Plan. Her preferred step-by-step approach
   has started with cost control; ideas for boosting coverage are
   promised in the coming weeks.

   Mrs Clinton offers a litany of well-known, but sensible, savings, such
   as shifting to electronic records, concentrating more on preventive
   medicine, improving the management of chronic diseases, and creating a
   "best practices institute" to set guidelines for optimal care. In all,
   she claims, $120 billion a year could be wrung out of the health
   system, money that could be used to pay for broader coverage.

   Mr Obama's plan, unveiled on May 29th, borrows from both his rivals'.
   Like Mrs Clinton, he concentrates on cost control. Mr Obama trots out
   the same litany of better disease management, electronic records and
   the like. He promises that the typical American family would save up
   to $2,500 in medical costs a year. Part of that, however, is gained by
   shifting expenses to the government. Borrowing an idea touted by John
   Kerry in 2004, Mr Obama says the federal government should reimburse
   private insurers for a share of any catastrophic health costs.

   The Obama path to universal coverage is a paler version of Mr
   Edwards's. It promises insurance-market reform, including the creation
   of a National Health Insurance Exchange, to act as a clearing-house
   for people to buy coverage, as well as an industry watchdog. Anyone
   without health cover at work could also buy into a new public-health
   plan, much like that for federal employees. Subsidies would help
   poorer Americans pay their premiums.

   Like Mr Edwards's, the Obama plan would levy a tax on firms that do
   not provide health cover. It would also demand an infusion of federal
   cash, to be paid for, yes, by rolling back some of the Bush tax cuts
   for the rich. Mr Obama's aides claim the price tag would be around $65
   billion a year, though other health experts think it would be higher.

   The big difference is that Mr Obama, unlike Mr Edwards, would not
   force people to buy health insurance. Only children would have to be
   covered. That soft-pedalling may please the unions, some of which
   dislike the idea of compelling workers to buy insurance. But it makes
   his plan both less efficient and less effective.


   Americans have always been conflicted about black gold 



   FLAGELLATING the oil business is one of America's proudest traditions.
   Ida Tarbell, the greatest of the muckraking journalists, accused
   Standard Oil of building its empire on "fraud, deceit, special
   privilege, gross illegality, bribery, coercion, corruption,
   intimidation, espionage or outright terror". Upton Sinclair demonised
   the oil barons in his 1927 novel "Oil!". Today bookshop shelves are
   crammed with tomes denouncing the Bush oil dynasty, or predicting that
   America's dependence on oil will bring environmental Armageddon.

   Paul Thomas Anderson's "There Will Be Blood" is a striking
   contribution to this tradition. The film, which is loosely based on
   Sinclair's book, is a study of frontier capitalism at its rawest. It
   is set in the badlands of the West--all scrub and rocks--where the
   people are too poor to buy bread and the only solace lies in the
   wonder-working power of Pentecostalism. The discovery of oil suddenly
   pours wealth into the community, but also brings all the usual sins of
   greed and envy. The local preacher is consumed by the dream of
   building a huge church.

   The film is also a study of obsession. Daniel Day-Lewis's performance
   as Daniel Plainview, a wildcatter-turned-tycoon, is not only
   mesmerising (Slate's Dana Stevens describes it as "beyond praise"). It
   is also utterly merciless. Most of Hollywood's business anti-heroes
   are redeemed by their attachment to their families: the heroin baron
   at the heart of "American Gangster" at least buys a mansion for his
   mother. But the only two relationships Plainview manages--with his
   adopted son and a man who claims to be his half-brother--both
   collapse. Plainview is eventually left with nothing but his oil
   fortune and the resentments he has accumulated while making it.

   Why have some Americans always harboured such hostility to the oil
   industry? Their loathing long predates worries about man's carbon
   footprint. It flies in the face of America's love affair with cars and
   the extravagant use of fuel. Many oilmen, too, have been
   quintessential entrepreneurs, self-reliant types who have wrestled
   wealth out of an unforgiving frontier. The great oil tycoons have
   recycled their wealth through philanthropy on a huge scale. Yet they
   are often hated.

   One reason is the sheer wealth and power of the oil families. America
   is one of the few rich countries with a large oil industry (the other
   two--Canada and Norway--are not given to America's ostentatious
   displays of wealth and power). The first oil boom after 1870 produced
   such titans as John D. Rockefeller (America's first billionaire) and
   Stephen Harkness. A second oil boom after the second world war
   produced a new generation of Texan tycoons such as the Hunts and the
   Basses.

   Kevin Phillips has compiled fascinating lists of America's 30 richest
   families throughout the 20th century. The list for 1901-14 contains
   six families who made their money wholly or partly out of oil. The
   lists for 1968 and 1982 contain eight and 11 families respectively.
   These oilmen have repeatedly redefined American power. Rockefeller's
   Standard Oil had the legislatures eating out of its hand. The sunbelt
   oilmen helped to promote the careers of Ronald Reagan and the Bushes.

   Another reason for hating the oil industry is that it has offered
   "progressives" not one convenient target but two. The first is
   "monopoly". In 1900 Standard Oil controlled more than 90% of the
   country's oil supply. Though that monopoly was eventually broken, a
   wave of mega-mergers in the 1990s has turned the remaining oil
   companies into some of the biggest businesses in the world. Two years
   ago Congress held a series of feisty hearings on the industry's
   alleged price-gouging, hearings that were hardly made more civil by
   the news that Lee Raymond, the head of Exxon Mobil, had been given a
   retirement package of $400m.

   The second target is frontier capitalism. The very thing that excites
   conservatives about the frontier--the fact that it allows spirited
   entrepreneurs to test themselves against nature in the pursuit of huge
   fortunes--disturbs liberals. Mr Anderson echoes long-standing liberal
   complaints. Primitive oil wells burst into flames all over his film.
   Men fall into tarry pits. The obsessed and misanthropic Plainview
   makes more money than he can spend while others are ruined.

   A growing slick of worries

   These days the oil critics have an embarrassment of riches to work
   with. Environmentalism is a perfect vehicle. The lust for oil is doing
   something more dangerous than creating the makeshift towns of
   Plainview's day: it is threatening to turn the world into an
   overheated mausoleum. And the Bush dynasty is the perfect foil. Dick
   Cheney subcontracted America's energy policy to his pals in the energy
   business and then fought like a demon to keep the proceedings secret.
   Two Bush presidents in a row have gone to war with the same oil-rich
   Arab country. George Bush junior has smirked at the problem of global
   warming--and the man he duelled with in 2000 has turned himself into
   the world's leading champion of environmentalism.

   Worries about oil are also spreading from its molten liberal core
   across the rest of the political spectrum. For many conservatives,
   "oil" now sums up images of sinister Arabs rather than rugged Texans
   (the United States now imports more than half its oil compared with
   less than a third in 1970). They fret that America's appetite for oil
   is enriching potentially hostile regimes in the Middle East. Most of
   the Republican candidates talk about energy independence.

   None of these problems is going to go away. Since oil is a global
   product, the notion of energy independence will remain a chimera.
   Americans, too, will remain reluctant to pay more for petrol or alter
   their energy-dependent way of life. Plenty more books and films
   excoriating oil can be expected in the years to come. Few, though,
   will be as good as "There Will Be Blood".


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

                            Fraternal greetings

   The Democrats are convulsed by emotive arguments 

   IN A high-minded moment in the Democratic debate in Las Vegas on
   January 15th Hillary Clinton declared that "what's most important is
   that Senator Obama and I agree completely that, you know, neither race
   nor gender should be a part of this campaign." Meanwhile, back in the
   real world, their respective camps were arguing about nothing else.

   Many blacks have taken objection to a couple of remarks that the
   Clintons made during the New Hampshire primary. Mrs Clinton averred
   that "Dr King's dream began to be realised when President Lyndon
   Johnson passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964". Bill Clinton--the two
   are joined hip and thigh during this campaign--accused Mr Obama of
   purveying a "fairy tale".

   The Clintons have reacted furiously to the charge of racial
   insensitivity--and their team has busily accused the Obama camp of
   twisting their words for partisan advantage. They have a point. Mr
   Clinton was referring to Mr Obama's opposition to the Iraq war. Mrs
   Clinton was emphasising the importance of experience in bringing about
   solid legislative change (though one wonders what sort of experienced
   Democratic politician speaks anything but reverently of Dr King). The
   Obama camp's hypersensitivity to presumed racial slights undercuts
   their champion's claim to be running as a post-racial politician.

   Still, Mr Obama's lieutenants were not the only people to take
   offence. Donna Brazile, Al Gore's former campaign manager and a
   neutral in this race, thought that they crossed the line, as did James
   Clyburn, an extremely influential South Carolina congressman. And
   black radio stations have been talking about nothing else.

   Mr Clinton's excuses were drowned in the noise created by Robert
   Johnson, a black mogul who founded Black Entertainment Television.
   Introducing Mrs Clinton in South Carolina, Mr Johnson claimed that the
   Clintons "have been deeply and emotionally involved with black issues
   since Barack Obama was doing something in the neighbourhood--and I
   won't say what he was doing but he said it in his book." Mr Johnson's
   preposterous claim that he was talking about Mr Obama's community
   activism rather than his cocaine use has persuaded nobody.

   The debate is not likely to die down--despite the candidates'
   protestations about taking gender and race off the table. The South
   Carolina primary looms on January 26th--the first primary in the South
   and the first that has not been played out before an overwhelmingly
   white electorate. Blacks make up half of the Democratic electorate in
   the state, and are leaning heavily towards Mr Obama. A Rasmussen poll
   found the two candidates neck and neck a month ago. This week
   Rasmussen found Mr Obama leading by 38 points to 33. Mr Obama leads by
   53 to 30 among blacks but loses by 21 to 40 among whites.

   The row also reflects deep cleavages along race and gender lines among
   Democratic voters nationally. Rasmussen shows Mr Obama beating Mrs
   Clinton by 66% to 16% among blacks but trailing her 27% to 41% among
   whites. Gallup shows Mrs Clinton leading Mr Obama by 49 points to 19
   points among females who are older than 50 and by 42 points to 28
   points among women aged 18 to 49.

   Mrs Clinton is banking on her edge among women. Her tearful moment in
   a New Hampshire diner, which is widely credited with reviving her
   floundering campaign, went down particularly well with older women.
   She repeatedly emphasises her hard work on behalf of her gender. In a
   remarkable exercise in doublethink she claimed on one of the Sunday
   talk shows that "you have a woman running to break the highest and
   hardest glass ceiling. I don't think either of us wants to inject race
   or gender in this campaign. We're running as individuals".

   The other reason why the debate will continue is that the Clintons'
   main aim at the moment is to drive up Mr Obama's "negatives". They
   desperately need to reverse polls that show that, despite his failure
   in New Hampshire, Mr Obama is picking up support in a large swathe of
   demographic groups.

   This will involve attacking his political record and picking apart his
   personal biography (it is striking that two Clinton supporters have
   already brought up Mr Obama's admitted cocaine use). None of this is
   likely to go down well with Americans who regard Mr Obama as one of
   the most talented politicians of his generation, and who hope that he
   will become America's first black president.


   What ruins reveal about America 

   LINDSAY BAKER walks through the streets of Thurber carrying a hoe. It
   is handy for killing rattlesnakes, which lurk in the long grass that
   has all but swallowed the town. He also uses it to scrape in the dirt
   for what the people who once lived there left behind. He finds some
   shards of an old medicine bottle, the cap of a salt-shaker and a
   half-brick with markings that date it sometime between 1904 and 1936.
   If a brush fire clears the grass, you'll see artefacts like this
   everywhere, explains Mr Baker, a historian whose boyish enthusiasm for
   ghost towns belies his years.

   America has a lot of ghost towns. There are 1,000 in Texas alone.
   Thurber was once home to 10,000 people. Now there are only five. In
   its busy days, Thurber was a coal town. Immigrants flocked there from
   Italy, Poland and Mexico to dig up fuel for steam trains. The coal was
   also used to fire bricks made from local clay. The town boasted
   churches, baseball teams and even an opera house.

   But then someone found oil in Texas. Before long, the trains started
   burning oil instead of coal. Thurber's mine closed in 1926. And since
   cheap oil prompted Texans to start using asphalt instead of bricks to
   pave their roads, Thurber's brick kiln closed, too.

   The workers left. Their homes were sold for $50 to anyone who could
   carry them off. You can still see them in the surrounding countryside,
   serving as barns or storehouses. Little is left in Thurber itself but
   a smokestack, the graveyard (divided into Catholic, Protestant and
   black areas) and a few company buildings.

   The story is not all wretched, however. Many workers found jobs in the
   oil business. The company that built Thurber struck oil and prospered.
   The old boss's daughter-in-law donated money for a museum to preserve
   Thurber's memory, which Mr Baker runs. His qualifications are ideal:
   besides teaching industrial history at nearby Tarleton State
   University, he is the author of "Ghost Towns of Texas" and "More Ghost
   Towns of Texas".

   Something about ghost towns grips the American imagination. They
   provide an eerie backdrop for movies, children's books and theme-park
   rides. Ghost-town enthusiasts devote countless weekends to searching
   out remote examples, photographing them and posting their findings on
   websites such as [3]www.ghosttowns.com. Typically, they give imprecise
   directions so that only the most committed ghost-towners can follow
   their footsteps.

   Ghost towns are sad places, but also monuments to American dynamism.
   When work moves, so do Americans. With so much space, especially in
   the West, it can make sense to let a town die. But its memory may live
   on. Ghost towns give people a tangible connection to a mysterious
   past, says Mr Baker. Others treat history more playfully. On a hill
   near Thurber, someone has built a hunting lodge in the shape of a
   Scottish castle.


   Welcome attention to the real problem

   SENATOR JOHN McCAIN is famous for his straight talking, spelling out
   uncomfortable truths even when they do him political damage--whether
   on Iraq, torture, immigration or free trade. Now he has decided to
   deal with health care bluntly too: American health-care costs are much
   too high, he says, and the priority for any reform must be to bring
   them down.

   Speaking on the campaign trail in Iowa on October 11th, Mr McCain put
   cost front and centre as he unveiled his own health plan. He noted
   that General Motors spends more on health than it does on steel: the
   price of each of its cars includes more than $1,500 for health care.
   Toyota's health-care costs come to about $200 a car.

   The other candidates all mention cost, of course. But for those on the
   Democratic side, the priority in this election is not cost but
   coverage. Some 47m Americans lack any form of health cover, being
   neither poor nor old enough to qualify for government-funded health
   schemes, and having neither a generous enough employer nor sufficient
   financial resources of their own to pay for private health insurance.
   This, on average, now costs some $12,000 a year for a family of four,
   according to the Kaiser Foundation, a Washington think-tank.

   All the leading Democratic candidates have produced detailed plans for
   making coverage universal, involving subsidies for those who can't
   afford insurance and--at least in the case of Hillary Clinton's and
   John Edwards's plans--a legal requirement that everyone be covered.
   Even on the Republican side, plans produced by Rudy Giuliani and a few
   others focus more on using market mechanisms (not subsidies, as the
   Democrats prefer) to expand coverage than on overall costs.

   But cost plainly is the biggest issue. For the past four decades,
   American health-care costs have usually increased faster than the
   economy has grown, by an average of an extra 2.5% a year. Health care
   now consumes around 16% of America's entire GDP, a much higher
   proportion than in other industrial economies.

   Ever-rising costs of this kind are not sustainable. They damage the
   competitiveness of companies, one reason why the proportion of firms
   offering health care to their employees has been steadily falling,
   from 69% in 2000 to 60% now. And these figures do not capture the
   extent to which squeezed companies have been scaling back their health
   plans, obliging employees, for instance, to pay a higher share of
   treatment costs, or refusing to cover other members of employees'
   families.

   For people who must pay for their own insurance, rising costs have far
   outstripped increases in earnings (see chart). This has helped
   increase the number of uninsured. And for the government, which pays
   for the health-care costs of many children, the very poor, the
   retired, veterans and its own servants, the geometrically rising price
   of cover is inexorably busting the budget. By 2050, says Peter Orszag,
   director of the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), Medicare (the
   government programme for the elderly) and Medicaid (for the poor) will
   together consume some 20% of GDP--almost the same share as the entire
   federal budget now. Three-quarters of this rise, he says, is due to
   cost inflation, and only about a quarter to the ageing of America's
   population.

   Mr McCain does not pretend to be able to solve this problem, but he
   offers a number of mechanisms that will help. The most important is to
   shake up the insurance market, by, for instance, allowing
   health-insurance companies to tout for business across state lines.
   Insurance and pharmaceuticals companies collectively make some $80
   billion a year in profit, which may suggest that there is room for
   more efficiency.

   Mr McCain also wants to see much greater pooling of national data on
   best practices, a suggestion that chimes with the CBO's finding of
   vast discrepancies between costs for similar procedures across the
   country. He wants to see doctors rewarded according to results, rather
   than procedures, because he argues that the current system is stacked
   against preventive medicine. His plans are skimpy compared with those
   of, say, Mrs Clinton. But at least he is asking the right question.


   The risky business of defying the Democratic National Committee

   FOR years Michigan's Democrats have said that the primary system gives
   Iowa and New Hampshire unfair attention. So last autumn the state's
   Democrats and equally miffed Republicans moved their contests right up
   into January. Michigan became a political hot spot, with candidates
   swooning at Detroit's latest cars and promising to revive the state's
   economy. At least, that's what the Republicans did. No Democrat turned
   up, except for Dennis Kucinich.

   The Democratic National Committee (DNC) angrily stripped Michigan and
   Florida, the other big state to defy the party and move its contest
   forward, of their delegates to the party convention in August, when
   the candidate will be nominated. (The Republican Party's gentler
   punishment was to cut the number of delegates in half.) Mark Brewer,
   Michigan's Democratic chairman, says the DNC will let his delegates
   attend the convention, but that remains to be seen.

   The result of all this, complained a writer for the Detroit Free
   Press, was a primary comparable to "NASCAR on bicycles, Halloween with
   no costumes and Miss America without swimsuits" (the last event might
   not be as dull as he meant). Hillary Clinton won 55% of the vote;
   hardly a victory, since her only rivals on the ballot were Chris Dodd
   (who withdrew from the race weeks ago), Mike Gravel (who?) and Mr
   Kucinich (the candidate who just won't go away).

   A remarkable 40% voted "uncommitted" in support of Barack Obama and
   John Edwards, who took their names off Michigan's ballot in deference
   to the official schedule. Their supporters hope the "uncommitted" vote
   will earn them delegates who could support their candidate at the
   convention--assuming any delegates from Michigan are allowed.

   Many local Democrats are angry with both the state and the national
   party. "People are so disappointed and discouraged," explained
   Christina Montague, leader of Michiganders for Obama. One of Mr
   Edwards's supporters has sued the state party, unsuccessfully, for
   disenfranchisement.

   Michigan's Democratic leaders are supporting their decision to go
   early. Carl Levin, Michigan's senior senator, hopes to inspire other
   states to demand that the DNC change its "cockamamie" system. (He has
   a bill that would do just that.) Mr Brewer insists that the early
   primary is "short-term pain for long-term reform". Pain, yes. The
   reform is less certain.

   Still, the DNC has not yet won this skirmish. If the attempt to
   strong-arm the states alienates the Democratic base in Michigan or
   Florida, the party may be the real loser in November.


   By neglecting its transport system, Chicago is gambling with its
   future

   AS A thriving midwestern city, Chicago is still the beating heart of
   much of America's industry. But its arteries--both road and rail--are
   increasingly clogged. A report released earlier this month by
   Illinois's auditor, William Holland, highlighted some chronic glitches
   in the network of buses and commuter trains. The region also needs a
   better approach to highways and rail freight.

   It is hard, of course, to co-ordinate commuter transport between an
   urban system and one that serves surrounding counties with a different
   tax base. Chicago's Regional Transportation Authority (RTA), which
   covers the six counties of the metropolitan area, is supposed to
   promote better planning and links among the city's system and a pair
   of others that run suburban train and bus networks. But it has clearly
   come up short so far. The RTA, Mr Holland's audit concluded, needs to
   wield a firmer hand, over budgets and in general.

   No matter how the RTA allocates the pie, however, the current pot of
   money seems woefully inadequate. Operating costs have grown three
   times as fast as revenues over the past five years. Last month the RTA
   released a five-year "strategic plan" (otherwise known as a request
   for money) that called for, among other things, an extra $400m in
   annual operating funds and $10 billion in capital spending over the
   next five years. That will be a tough sell in the state legislature.

   Freight traffic is arguably an even bigger problem. In this, Chicago
   is unique. Six of the country's seven biggest-earning railways
   converge there, and the city is still the hub for a staggering amount
   of trans-continental commerce. Managing logistics and supply chains
   for distant companies, as well as physically moving goods around at
   warehouses and inter-modal hubs, generates lots of jobs for the area.
   Chicago's ability to handle all this traffic is being badly stretched,
   however. Ann Drake, the head of DSC Logistics, says that west-east
   freight traffic continues to grow rapidly, as ever more goods from
   Asia try to make their way to the east coast.

   Ms Drake's worry--and that of many others--is that Chicago's
   congestion will eventually cause many shipments to be rerouted around
   it, a process that could eat away its advantages. "We do not want to
   become another St Louis," she says, gloomily invoking the city that
   lost its midwestern primacy to Chicago after failing to invest in
   infrastructure.

   Helpfully, many business and civic leaders are moving transport
   problems up their list of priorities. The Metropolitan Planning
   Council (MPC), which presses for a co-ordinated policy for the
   region's big issues, has done a good job of channelling their
   frustrations into useful ideas. But there is something odd about the
   way that many of Chicago's leaders talk about these problems. They
   invariably try to link their suggestions to grand or abstract ideas,
   such as being a "global city" or winning a bid to host the Olympics.
   The simpler need is to get goods and people moving.

   The awful state of Chicago's transport comes home most plainly to
   drivers sitting stationary in their cars. The public debate over
   making drivers pay to use the roads has been as shallow in Chicago as
   in the rest of America. The argument tends to revolve around whether
   it makes more sense to use tolls and private enterprise to pay for
   better roads, or instead to keep charging taxpayers for a system that
   just limps along. By contrast, not much is said about the role that
   prices might play in altering the behaviour of both companies and
   commuters. MarySue Barrett, president of the MPC, says that her outfit
   hopes to make road pricing a bigger part of that debate.

   Hostility towards road pricing might be understandable in other parts
   of America. But one of Chicago's proudest feats was the creation of
   financial futures markets, which prompted far-flung firms and farmers
   to adjust their behaviour to the slightest twitch in the price of pork
   futures or Canadian dollars. Surely the system would work for Chicago
   commuters as well.


   The front-runners fall back in the crucial first state to vote

   IN OCTOBER a group of Iowa Democrats gathered for a Barack Obama
   "house party". People were polite in Iowa, one guest explained, and
   they expected the same good behaviour from presidential candidates.
   But now, less than a month before the parties hold their nominating
   caucuses there on January 3rd, a slew of new polls have bad news for
   the front-runners, and the candidates have moved into attack mode.
   How, though, to sling their mud without upsetting Iowans?

   On the Republican side, Mike Huckabee, a former governor of Arkansas,
   has zoomed up to take a narrow lead over Mitt Romney, a former
   governor of Massachusetts, who had led in Iowa for months.
   Evangelicals, who will make up an estimated 40% of Republicans taking
   part in the caucuses, have rallied behind Mr Huckabee. He is
   resolutely conservative on social issues; he is not a Mormon like Mr
   Romney; and he is not lazy like Fred Thompson. But Mr Huckabee needs
   to build up his tiny Iowa organisation fast. If he goes in as the
   favourite and loses, he will have less chance of winning in other
   early-voting states, like New Hampshire, where his pitch is less
   attractive.

   Mr Huckabee's rivals are doing their best to draw attention to the
   smiling Arkansan's weaknesses. They are attacking him for wanting to
   subsidise university fees for the children of illegal immigrants in
   Arkansas, as well as for raising certain taxes during his time as
   governor. Mr Romney, in particular, will have to offer a substantive
   critique of Mr Huckabee's economic populism and lack of foreign-policy
   expertise if he is to repulse the Huckabee wave. Both in his
   conservative credentials and in his personal chemistry, the robotic Mr
   Romney cannot compete with the affable former Baptist minister.

   Meanwhile, the Democratic contest is now a tight three-way race
   between Hillary Clinton, John Edwards and Mr Obama. In some recent
   polls, Mr Obama has actually taken the lead. For the first time, the
   moving average compiled by [3]Real Clear Politics, a website, now
   shows both Mr Romney and Mrs Clinton dislodged from the Iowa top spots
   (see chart).

   In response, Mrs Clinton seems to be drifting to the left. In an
   interview with the Financial Times this week she turned more
   protectionist than ever, calling the Doha round of international trade
   talks into question. Her campaign has also begun questioning Mr
   Obama's integrity, using an essay he wrote in kindergarten entitled "I
   Want to be President" as evidence of overweening ambition.

   Mrs Clinton, who is still miles ahead in all national polls of
   Democrats, seemed to trip up in Iowa on December 2nd when she said
   that making personal attacks on Mr Obama was going to be "fun". That
   is just the sort of fun those polite Iowans don't like very much.


   Health care for children arouses the president's mean streak

   NEITHER fiscal restraint, nor the veto pen, has characterised
   President George Bush's time in the White House. America continues to
   run a deficit, and Mr Bush has vetoed only three bills in his whole
   tenure. But now that he has a Democratic Congress to battle with, the
   president is promising to be tougher.

   Mr Bush has said he will turn away a bill that would expand the State
   Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), a scheme that insures
   children from low-income families, which passed the House of
   Representatives on September 25th. He has also threatened to veto nine
   of the 12 appropriations bills that make up the federal budget,
   because the Democrats' budget plan exceeds his own by $22 billion.

   But SCHIP is extremely popular, and so is the bill that seeks to widen
   it to 4m more uninsured children. Since 1997, SCHIP has covered
   children in families that do not qualify for benefits under Medicaid,
   a programme for the very poor, but who still cannot afford health
   insurance. Under the scheme, the federal government gives a block
   grant to the states, which design their own benefits and eligibility
   criteria. The programme expires on September 30th.

   House and Senate negotiators crafted a renewal plan that would add $35
   billion to the programme's cost over five years and enable states to
   cover families with incomes at or above three times the poverty line
   in certain cases. Mr Bush claims that the reformed programme will
   attract families who already have private insurance into the state-run
   programme. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that a
   third of families that would enroll would have access to private
   coverage. But Robert Greenstein, of the Centre on Budget and Policy
   Priorities, argues that crowding out is bound to occur as the
   government tries to cover more children.

   Mr Greenstein speculates that the president is really trying to force
   Congress to attach the health-care tax-incentive proposal he unveiled
   in January. An aversion to government-run health-care programmes and
   new taxes--a tobacco-tax increase would fund the SCHIP expansion--may
   also be driving Mr Bush's opposition. Or he may simply be trying to
   re-establish his credentials as a fiscal conservative.

   Whatever the truth, the White House has made an inauspicious start of
   its fight with Congress over federal spending. Battle royal will be
   joined in November.




   Can America ever escape from the shadow of 1968? 

   AMERICA is greeting the New Year with a spasm of nostalgia for an old
   one. Tom Brokaw's new book, "Boom!", is a virtual reunion of the class
   of '68 (the high point is a photograph of the young Dick Cheney
   astride a motorbike and wearing shades). Newsweek has dubbed 1968 "the
   year that changed everything". On December 30th the Washington Post
   quoted David Maraniss, one of the best chroniclers of the 1960s,
   waxing lyrical about '68: "there was a mood that anything was
   possible, good or bad, that life was changing by the week...it was
   kind of dizzying and exhilarating and tragic."

   For once the baby-boomers can be forgiven their nostalgia. 1968 was
   indeed one of the most significant years in American history. Martin
   Luther King and Robert Kennedy were assassinated within two months of
   each other. The Tet offensive turned public opinion against the
   Vietnam war. Cities burned and students revolted. The Democratic
   convention in Chicago collapsed in riots and confusion.

   1968 was the anvil that shaped the political legacy of the sixties.
   The Democratic Party marginalised itself by shifting decisively to the
   left on everything from the war to sexual politics. The Republican
   Party hit on its great winning formula--presenting itself as the
   champion of the "silent majority" against long-haired lefties and
   revolting students. The year ended with almost 60% of Americans voting
   for either Richard Nixon or George Wallace, a Southern segregationist.

   The Republicans and Democrats have replayed these themes ever since.
   The Republicans have caricatured the Democrats as Harvard Yard
   hippies. Hence all those congressional votes on flag-burning and other
   dire threats. The Democrats have accused the Republicans of repeating
   the mistakes of Vietnam in Iraq. One reason why conservatives hate
   Bill Clinton so much is that they think he embodies the narcissism and
   self-indulgence of the 1960s. (The man even named his daughter after a
   Joni Mitchell song.) One reason why liberals hate George Bush so much
   is that they think he and his frat-boy kind should have been swept
   aside by the youth-quake of 1968.

   They are replaying those themes still in the current election. John
   McCain, who spent the late 1960s as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, has
   chided Hillary Clinton for earmarking $1m for a Woodstock concert
   museum ("I wasn't there...I was tied up at the time"). John Edwards
   often seems to be channelling the spirit of Robert Kennedy--at least
   of the RFK who transformed himself after his brother's death from
   hard-assed cold warrior to liberal hero. Like RFK, he has made ending
   the war his signature tune; he is focused on ending poverty; and he
   has spent much of his time campaigning in inner cities and rural
   backwaters.

   But there is also something else going on in this campaign; a longing
   to escape from the shadow of 1968. Barack Obama makes much of the fact
   that he is too young to have played a part in the Kulturkampf of the
   1960s. He has pointedly complained that "Senator Clinton and others,
   they've been fighting some of the same fights since the sixties, and
   it makes it very difficult for them to bring the country together to
   get things done."

   Move on

   Can America at last break free of the 1960s? Much obviously depends on
   which candidates the parties pick. Mrs Clinton is most likely to give
   the old culture warriors a chance to fight the battles of 1968 again.
   Mr Obama is the most likely to re-scramble American politics in
   unpredictable ways. But, even if the Democrats go with Mrs Clinton,
   there are some reasons for hoping that politics will be more than just
   a replay of that year.

   The first is that the Democratic Party has decisively kicked the habit
   of self-marginalisation that it acquired in 1968. It has replaced
   cultural liberalism with a studied cultural conservatism (too much so
   on the issues of ending the death penalty and of gun control, both of
   which it now studiously ignores). Mrs Clinton has supported banning
   flag-burning. Both Mr Edwards and Mr Obama support big increases in
   the military budget.

   The second is that Nixon's strategy of defending the moral majority
   against the cultural elites is running out of steam. The Republican
   candidates have had their fair share of divorces. Rudy Giuliani has
   embraced New York values when it comes to abortion and homosexual
   unions. The populism that is catching fire this year is old-fashioned
   economic populism rather than Nixon-style cultural populism--and it is
   catching fire across both parties. Both Mr Edwards, a Democrat, and
   Mike Huckabee, a Republican, have powered their campaigns by
   championing ordinary people against greedy corporations.

   The final reason is that, for all the endless comparisons between
   Vietnam and Iraq, America has changed greatly since 1968. Students are
   worried about getting good jobs rather than changing the system. The
   anti-war demonstrations have been insignificant compared with the
   draft-fuelled marches of the 1960s. The counter-culture has long ago
   made its peace with capitalism. Some 150m Americans, half the
   population, have been born since January 1st 1969.

   The biggest difference is with race relations. In the wake of King's
   murder, riots erupted in 125 cities: 46 people were killed, 2,500
   injured and 21,000 arrested. Soldiers set up machinegun-turrets on the
   steps of the Capitol. Black radicals like Stokely Carmichael pledged
   to "end this non-violence bullshit". Today America's race relations
   are utterly transformed. There are still far too many blacks in
   poverty or in jail. But there is also a thriving black middle class. A
   conservative Republican president has made a black woman who grew up
   in the segregated South his secretary of state. Mr Obama is
   campaigning for president as a post-racial candidate. 1968 was indeed
   a remarkable year, but it is time for a new template for American
   politics.


   Most commuters are miserable, but Chicago's may be the most
   beleaguered

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                                      It's hell on the El

   THE city's average commute is not quite America's longest (that honour
   goes to New York), but in one respect Chicago is unrivalled: the
   bitterness and passion of the argument surrounding its
   public-transport system.

   If the Illinois state legislature does not act by January 20th, more
   than half of bus routes in the city will be eliminated, some 2,400
   transport workers will be sacked and fares will be raised. Suburban
   rail and bus lines face cuts as well. Commuters will be forced to
   drive on already crowded roads or walk to a distant bus or train--this
   in the depths of winter, with pavements icy and kerbs surrounded by
   lakes of frigid slush. As America grapples with traffic, high fuel
   prices and climate change, public transport is often suggested as an
   antidote. But, as Chicago proves all too well, innovation in public
   services can easily be stymied by old-fashioned bickering.

   There is hope that Illinois's legislators will be more productive in
   2008 than they were last year, but this is not saying much. Last March
   the state's auditor published a bleak report about greater Chicago's
   transport network. Over the previous five years operating costs had
   risen faster than revenues--6.5% each year compared with 2.2%--and
   pensions for the city's transport workers were only 34% funded as of
   2006. Lawmakers spent most of 2007 bickering over how to raise more
   money, in vain.

   Now commuters face severe reductions in service. They were already
   threatened with two such "doomsdays" last autumn, but each time the
   governor of Illinois, Rod Blagojevich, used a quick infusion of cash
   to let the argument drag on. It is unclear whether he will be able to
   do so again.

   Through all this, there has been a ready solution. Julie Hamos, a
   state representative, proposed a bill that would raise Chicago's
   property transfer tax and increase the sales tax in the metropolitan
   region's six counties. Her bill also includes reforms to the pension
   system and the Regional Transportation Authority, resolving some of
   the problems that helped create the mess in the first place.

   But this sensible bill has been stalled by the usual in-fighting. The
   governor opposes a sales-tax increase and favours diverting the sales
   tax on gasoline from the general fund. (Congestion pricing, raising
   the petrol tax itself or getting the private sector involved are not
   even part of the debate.) And in the Illinois state legislature, many
   senators and representatives from rural and suburban districts have
   refused to help unless they get something in return. Politicians are
   now fighting over how to expand gambling to pay for capital projects,
   a brawl that seems likely to drag on for some time.

   Ineptitude on this scale comes at a heavy price. Hacking away at the
   public-transport system, America's second-biggest, will not help
   Chicago's bid to host the 2016 Olympics. And failing to invest in
   transport could be costing the region $2 billion a year, argues
   Chicago Metropolis 2020, a civic group. At a hearing in November,
   parents described how service cuts would force their children to walk
   to school through dangerous areas. Others explained how hard it would
   be to get to work. If Illinois's politicians were trying to
   demonstrate how not to tackle a serious issue, they could hardly do
   better.


   The rise and fall of the shopping mall

                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images

   THE Southdale shopping centre in Minnesota has an atrium, a food
   court, fountains and acres of parking. Its shops include a Dairy
   Queen, a Victoria's Secret and a purveyor of comic T-shirts. It may
   not seem like a landmark, as important to architectural history as the
   Louvre or New York's Woolworth Building. But it is. "Ohmigod!" chimes
   a group of teenage girls, on learning that they are standing in the
   world's first true shopping mall. "That is the coolest thing anybody
   has said to us all day."

   In the past half century Southdale and its many imitators have
   transformed shopping habits, urban economies and teenage speech.
   America now has some 1,100 enclosed shopping malls, according to the
   International Council of Shopping Centres. Clones have appeared from
   Chennai to Martinique. Yet the mall's story is far from triumphal.
   Invented by a European socialist who hated cars and came to deride his
   own creation, it has a murky future. While malls continue to multiply
   outside America, they are gradually dying in the country that
   pioneered them.

   Southdale's creator arrived in America as a refugee from Nazi-occupied
   Vienna. Victor Gruen was a Jewish bohemian who began to design shops
   for fellow immigrants in New York after failing in cabaret theatre.
   His work was admired partly for its uncluttered, modernist look, which
   seemed revolutionary in 1930s America. But Gruen's secret was the way
   he used arcades and eye-level display cases to lure customers into
   stores almost against their will. As a critic complained, his shops
   were like mousetraps. A few years later the same would be said of his
   shopping malls.

   By the 1940s department stores were already moving to the suburbs.
   Some had begun to build adjacent strips of shops, which they filled
   with boutiques in an attempt to re-create urban shopping districts. In
   1947 a shopping centre opened in Los Angeles featuring two department
   stores, a cluster of small shops and a large car park. It was, in
   effect, an outdoor shopping mall. Fine for balmy southern California,
   perhaps, but not for Minnesota's harsh climate. Commissioned to build
   a shopping centre at Southdale in 1956, Gruen threw a roof over the
   structure and installed an air-conditioning system to keep the
   temperature at 75F (24C)--which a contemporary press release called
   "Eternal Spring". The mall was born.

   Gruen got an extraordinary number of things right first time. He built
   a sloping road around the perimeter of the mall, so that half of the
   shoppers entered on the ground floor and half on the first
   floor--something that became a standard feature of malls. Southdale's
   balconies were low, so that shoppers could see the shops on the floor
   above or below them. The car park had animal signs to help shoppers
   remember the way back to their vehicles. It was as though Orville and
   Wilbur Wright had not just discovered powered flight but had built a
   plane with tray tables and a duty-free service.

   Oddly, this most suburban American invention was supposed to evoke a
   European city centre. Hence Southdale's density and its atrium, where
   shoppers were expected to sit and debate over cups of coffee, just as
   they do in the Piazza San Marco or the Place Dauphine. Gruen exiled
   cars, which he thought noisy and anti-social, to the outside of his
   mall. Most contemporary critics thought Gruen had succeeded in
   bringing urbanity to the suburbs. Southdale was "more like downtown
   than downtown itself", claimed the Architectural Record. Another
   asserted, in a rare example of journalistic hyperbole that turned out
   to be absolutely right, that the indoor shopping mall was henceforth
   "part of the American way".

   As Jeffrey Hardwick explains in his excellent biography, Gruen did not
   believe his creation would take business away from downtown shopping
   districts. He saw it as an adjunct to them. If indoor shopping centres
   harmed any businesses, Gruen dearly hoped it would be the fast-food
   stands and tacky strip malls that were sprouting like weeds along main
   roads. Southdale's first tenants shared this sanguine view. When it
   opened it was filled not with national chains but with second branches
   of downtown merchants.

   By the 1970s malls were proliferating. Gruen toured America promoting
   his invention. Malls began to open in Europe too--where, Gruen was
   presumably surprised to learn, they were seen as quintessentially
   American. At home, two developments speeded their growth. The first
   was a change in the tax code which allowed investors to write down a
   large proportion of a new building's cost as a loss. That made malls
   much more profitable. The second was a widespread property-tax revolt
   that deprived local governments of their most reliable source of
   income. Desperate, they tried to lure businesses that they could milk
   for taxes. They were particularly keen on shopping malls.

   Tribes of the mall

   By the early 1980s indoor shopping centres were woven tightly into
   American culture. New cuisines (the term is perhaps too grand) emerged
   in them, thanks to chains like Cinnabon and Panda Express, which did
   not exist outside malls. They began to swell to the point of
   absurdity. Canada's West Edmonton Mall, which opened in 1982, has an
   ice-skating rink, a pool with sea-lions and an indoor bungee jump. The
   Mall of America, in Minnesota, has three rollercoasters and more than
   500 shops arranged in "streets" designed to appeal to different age
   groups. Every morning it opens early to accommodate a group of "mall
   walkers" who trudge around its 0.57-mile perimeter for exercise.

   Artists and urban anthropologists began to note the appearance of
   mall-based tribes. Most celebrated--and lampooned--were the Valley
   girls who congregated in California's Glendale Galleria. Frank Zappa's
   then-teenage daughter, Moon Unit, wrote a hit song that captured their
   argot ("ohmigod!", "no biggie", "grody to the max", "total space
   cadet") and praised the Galleria for having "like, all these, like,
   really great shoe stores". Mall-oriented films followed, spreading the
   Valley girls' culture like spores in the wind.

   Just as the onward march of malls began to seem unstoppable, though,
   things began to go wrong. In just a few years they turned from temples
   of consumption to receptacles for social problems. The changing
   attitude to shopping malls can be seen in two films, both of which,
   appropriately, are to cinema what Panda Express is to the Chinese
   culinary tradition.

   George Romero's "Dawn of the Dead", released in 1978, is ostensibly a
   story about a group of people struggling to survive in a world taken
   over by flesh-eating zombies. But it is also a commentary on the lurid
   appeal of shopping malls, which were then multiplying quickly. That
   becomes clear a third of the way through the film, when the humans
   must decide where to take refuge. They rule out the cities, which are
   thick with monsters. Yet they need food, water and fuel, which are
   hard to find in the wilderness. They decide to head for a suburban
   shopping mall.

                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images

                      Southdale in its gleaming heyday

   There are a few zombies at the mall when the refugees arrive,
   staggering about aimlessly in a fashion familiar to Christmas
   shoppers. As one character explains, the monsters seem to have been
   drawn there by instinct: the mall was clearly an important place in
   their lives. Most of the humans are similarly intoxicated by the
   variety of goods on display. That worries the film's heroine, Fran.
   "I'm afraid," she says. "You're hypnotised by this place, all of you.
   It's all so bright and neatly wrapped that you don't see that it can
   be a prison." Nonsense, replies her boyfriend: "We got everything we
   need right here!" The rest of the film bears out the horror-movie
   dictum that nervous young women are always right.

   In 1995 a much gloomier vision of the shopping mall appeared. If "Dawn
   of the Dead" suggested malls were monstrously appealing, Kevin Smith's
   "Mallrats" depicted them simply as magnets for dysfunctional youth.
   The film chronicles the mundane adventures of four young men who come
   to a New Jersey mall to hang out, complain about their girlfriends and
   annoy security guards. The shopkeepers loathe them because, as the
   manager of Fashionable Male, a clothes shop, puts it, they lack a
   "shopping agenda". Indeed, they lack much of an agenda at all. In Mr
   Smith's mall everybody is a kind of zombie. As the film's tagline
   explained: "They're not there to work. They're not there to shop.
   They're just there."

                                                  [spacer.gif] [gray.gif]
                                                             [spacer.gif]
       So many shopping malls have died or are dying that a new hobby has
                                  appeared: amateur shopping-mall history
                                                             [spacer.gif]
                                                               [gray.gif]

   By the 1990s malls were in trouble. Having bred too quickly, they
   began to cannibalise each other. (Turn left out of Southdale's car
   park and the first building you pass is another shopping mall.)
   Discount shops, factory-outlet stores and category killers like Toys
   "R" Us ate into their profits. As middle-aged shoppers began to
   disappear, the teenagers who had inhabited malls from the beginning
   became more noticeable, which only made things worse. In 1998 Good
   Housekeeping ran a story entitled "Danger at the Mall". Indoor
   shopping malls are now so out of favour that not one will be built in
   America before 2009 at the earliest, according to the International
   Council of Shopping Centres.

   One reason for the malls' problems is that the suburbs have changed.
   When the Southdale shopping centre opened on the outskirts of
   Minneapolis, the suburbs were almost entirely white and middle-class.
   Whites were fleeing a wave of new arrivals from the South (the black
   population of Minneapolis rose by 155% between 1940 and 1960).
   Although Gruen could not bear to admit it, his invention appealed to
   those who wanted downtown's shops without its purported dangers. These
   days, in Minneapolis as in much of America, the ethnic drift is in the
   opposite direction. The suburbs are becoming much more racially mixed
   while the cities fill up with hip, affluent whites. As a result,
   suburban malls no longer provide a refuge from diversity.

   So many malls have died or are dying that a new hobby has appeared:
   amateur shopping-mall history. Like many esoteric pursuits, this has
   been facilitated by the internet. Websites such as [3]Deadmalls.com
   and [4]Labelscar.com collect pictures of weedy car parks and empty
   food courts and try to explain how once-thriving shopping centres
   began to spiral downward. Some of the recollections are faintly ironic
   or gloating. Yet the strongest note is anguish. Implausibly, these
   online histories reveal the deep emotional connections that people can
   establish with malls.

   One of the most touching is a [5]website devoted to Lakehurst mall
   near Chicago, which was demolished in 2004. Prodded by a local
   journalist, women and a few men write in with memories of
   back-to-school shopping trips, ear piercings, first jobs at Cinnabon
   and Orange Julius, early dates and even marriage proposals. Many are
   bereft at the mall's demolition, as though suffering the death of a
   pet. "You don't realise how much you miss something until it is gone,"
   writes one. Others are almost apologetic: "If only we knew what we
   had, we would never have strayed to other malls."

   As shopping malls decline, they sometimes come to resemble the civic
   centres that Gruen intended them to be. Attracted by cheap rents,
   community groups and police stations move in. On a trip to one of
   Gruen's creations, the now-desolate Carousel Mall in San Bernardino,
   your correspondent encountered a group of middle-aged Mexicans
   studying for the American citizenship test.

   Not all malls have suffered from competition and the suburbs'
   transformation. Some have prospered by appealing to growing
   ethnic-minority groups. American malls are courting middle-class
   Latinos by adding butchers' shops and, in some cases, by decking
   themselves out to resemble Mexican villages. La Gran Plaza, in the
   Texas town of Fort Worth, lays on mariachi and reggaeton acts and is
   building a rodeo. Other malls changed their clientele without
   adjusting their look. Brent Cross shopping centre, one of Britain's
   earliest malls, now contains shops staffed by second- and
   third-generation Asians selling to new arrivals from eastern Europe.

   The mall goes downtown

   Yet without white, middle-aged women few British or American shopping
   centres could survive. One bold attempt to lure them back can be seen
   at the corner of Third Street and Fairfax Boulevard in Los Angeles.
   The Grove shopping centre, which opened in 2002, performs all the
   functions of a mall without looking at all like one. Like Southdale,
   it has fountains, flowers, piped music and a good selection of
   underwear. But the Grove is open to the elements, the plants are real
   and, rather than vaguely evoking a town centre, it is actually done up
   to look like one. Or rather (this being Los Angeles) a fantasy amalgam
   of several town centres.

   Among the Grove's 40 or so buildings are a Caribbean house with
   shutters and a wooden balcony, an Art Deco cinema and a grand Beaux
   Arts building that houses a branch of the clothes shop Abercrombie &
   Fitch. Its fountains are choreographed to songs by Frank Sinatra and
   Sammy Davis junior. Every few minutes a tram trundles through the
   shopping centre. The tram's driver rings his bell almost constantly,
   because the other thing that distinguishes the Grove from an
   old-fashioned mall is that it is nearly always packed.

   The Grove was built by Rick Caruso (below), a dapper man who owns
   eight shopping centres in southern California and has three more under
   way. His next project, a 16-acre development with a large public
   square, apartments and lots more fountains, will open in 2008 next to
   the Glendale Galleria. He also plans to build an open-air shopping
   centre by a race track in the city of Arcadia, where the weary will be
   transported from shop to shop in a horse-drawn carriage. It is a sign
   of the popularity of his developments, as well as the bleak future of
   conventional malls, that the owners of nearby shopping centres are
   fighting hard to stop him.

                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images

                   Rick Caruso and his "lifestyle centre"

   Mr Caruso doesn't think he builds malls. The industry term is
   "lifestyle centres"; he calls his creations simply "streets". Nor can
   he claim to have invented the outdoor shopping centre. Before Gruen's
   revolutionary designs, all shopping centres were open to the sky. But
   Mr Caruso has brought the open-air mall to a pitch of ersatz
   perfection. It is partly thanks to him, and particularly the Grove,
   that every new shopping centre built in America next year will be
   roofless (and several traditional shopping malls will tear off their
   roofs). Open-air centres will appear not just in temperate places like
   southern California but also in muggy Houston and frigid
   Massachusetts.

   The mix-and-match appearance of the "lifestyle centres" is thought to
   be key to their appeal. Mr Caruso and his designers visit cities as
   diverse as Savannah and Capri to measure buildings and try to capture
   their appeal. Architectural styles are jumbled together with the aim
   of creating a festive, holiday atmosphere which people go to hang out
   in and end up spending money. "After all," says Mr Caruso, "you buy
   things when you're on holiday that you wouldn't buy otherwise." But Mr
   Caruso also claims, more boldly, that his creations are more "real"
   and authentic than conventional shopping centres.

   It is an odd claim for a man whose signature style is a mish-mash of
   two continents' and several centuries' worth of architectural
   traditions. But, like Gruen half a century ago, Mr Caruso has a bold
   vision for his developments. Indeed, his vision is rather similar to
   Gruen's. Like the Austrian migr, Mr Caruso believes that people are
   naturally gregarious, and that America has failed to provide them with
   places that meet their social needs. Like Gruen, he claims to be
   trying to create not just profitable shopping places but also more
   perfect city centres.

   There is one crucial difference. Gruen wanted to improve upon the
   American city centre by modernising and Europeanising it. Mr Caruso,
   by contrast, looks to the past. He has tried to re-create a kind of
   prelapsarian downtown where there is no crime or homelessness. His
   romantic evocations of city centres are possible only because people
   have forgotten what downtowns used to be like. And they have
   forgotten, of course, largely because of the suburban shopping malls
   that Gruen built. It was necessary to kill the American city centre
   before bringing it back to life.


   Some helpful subsidies from Harvard and Yale 

   WEAK dollar or no, $46,000--the price for a single year of
   undergraduate instruction amid the red brick of Harvard Yard--is
   expensive. But nowadays cost is no barrier to entry at many of
   America's best universities. Formidable financial-assistance policies
   have eliminated fees or slashed them deeply for needy students. And
   last month Harvard announced a new plan designed to relieve the
   sticker-shock for undergraduates from middle and even upper-income
   families too.

   Since then, other rich American universities have unveiled similar
   initiatives. Yale, Harvard's bitterest rival, revealed its plans on
   January 14th. Students whose families make less than $60,000 a year
   will pay nothing at all. Families earning up to $200,000 a year will
   have to pay an average of 10% of their incomes. The university will
   expand its financial-assistance budget by 43%, to over $80m.

   Harvard will have a similar arrangement for families making up to
   $180,000. That makes the price of going to Harvard or Yale comparable
   to attending a state-run university for middle- and upper-income
   students. The universities will also not require any student to take
   out loans to pay for their tuition, a policy introduced by Princeton
   in 2001 and by the University of Pennsylvania just after Harvard's
   announcement. No applicant who gains admission, officials say, should
   feel pressured to go elsewhere because he or she can't afford the
   fees.

   None of that is quite as altruistic as it sounds. Harvard and Yale
   are, after all, now likely to lure more students away from previously
   cheaper options, particularly state-run universities, enhancing their
   already impressive admissions figures and reputations.

   The schemes also provide a model for structuring university fees in
   which high prices for rich students help offset modest prices for
   poorer ones and families are less reliant on federal grants and
   government-backed loans.

   Less wealthy private colleges whose fees are high will not be able to
   copy Harvard or Yale easily. But America's state-run universities,
   which have traditionally kept their fees low and stable, might well
   try a differentiated pricing scheme as they raise cash to compete
   academically with their private counterparts. Indeed, the University
   of California system has already started to implement a sliding-fee
   scale.


   Health care is a bigger problem than poverty in America

   WITH an election looming, even the driest documents can spark fury.
   Hillary Clinton expressed "outrage" at the news contained in the
   Census Bureau's latest report on income, poverty and health insurance
   in the United States, which was released on August 28th. Barack Obama
   said it represented "a betrayal of the ideals we hold as Americans".
   John Edwards, reviving a well-worn theme, said it confirmed that there
   are "two Americas". To anyone not running for president, however, the
   report contained both good news and bad.

   The good news is that the average American is a little better off, and
   the proportion of Americans who are poor has dwindled a little. Real
   median household income rose by 0.7% from 2005 to 2006, to $48,201.
   And the official poverty rate fell from 12.6% to 12.3%. The bad news
   is that the number and proportion of Americans who lack health
   insurance continued to climb, from 44.8m (15.3%) to 47m (15.8%).

   Together, these numbers hardly represent the disaster leading
   Democrats say they do, but neither are they cause for unrestrained
   glee. Median household income is still below its peak in 1999, and has
   grown more slowly than income per head, as the rich have gained more
   than those in the middle. Confusingly, even as median incomes rose,
   median earnings for full-time workers fell by about 1% between 2005
   and 2006. The explanation is that more people are working longer
   hours.

   This lends itself to the sound-bite that Americans are working longer
   hours for lower wages, but that may be misleading. It is not clear
   that the same people are being paid less for the hours they work.
   Rather, it may be that more unskilled people are starting to work
   full-time instead of part-time or not at all, and therefore bringing
   down the average, says Gary Burtless of the Brookings Institution, a
   think-tank. The census data also fail to take account of George Bush's
   generous tax cuts, which have boosted take-home pay. On the other
   hand, they are too old to reflect the fallout from this year's market
   turmoil, which could be grave.

   The poverty figures are both less accurate and more hopeful. It sounds
   awful to say that 36.5m Americans are living in poverty. But "poverty"
   in America, as defined by the Census Bureau, does not mean
   destitution. A typical poor American lives in a three-bedroom house
   with a car, air-conditioning and two televisions. His children
   actually eat more meat than rich kids do. And he receives substantial
   benefits that the census bizarrely excludes from its calculations.

   Americans are deemed poor if their pre-tax income falls below a
   certain threshold--for example, $20,614 for a family of four. By this
   measure, the proportion of Americans who are poor is no better today
   than it was in the 1970s. But this is nonsense. The census ignores
   non-cash benefits such as government health insurance, food stamps and
   subsidised housing. It also ignores the earned-income tax credit, a
   wage subsidy for the working poor that is reckoned to be one of
   America's most effective anti-poverty measures. On the day the census
   report appeared, Michael Bloomberg, New York's mayor and a possible
   independent presidential candidate, called for a huge expansion of the
   earned-income tax credit and a serious re-think of how poverty is
   measured.

   This week's gloomiest news concerns health insurance. As medical costs
   soar, more firms are opting not to provide their staff with coverage.
   The government provides insurance for the poor and the elderly through
   monster programmes called Medicaid and Medicare. But that still leaves
   a big hole in the safety net, through which a swelling crowd of
   Americans is falling. Many states have tried to stitch up the hole by
   expanding Medicaid to include people who are not quite poor, and by
   enrolling more children in the federally funded State Children's
   Health Insurance Programme (SCHIP).

   This is expensive, however. On August 17th the Bush administration
   imposed new restrictions to curb costs. Several states allow children
   to join SCHIP if their family income is as much as 250% of the poverty
   line. But under the new rules, states will have to demonstrate that
   95% of children with family incomes below 200% of the poverty line are
   enrolled before they can raise the bar to 250%. Whereas it makes sense
   to try to reach the poorest first, the 95% target is unattainable,
   says John Colmers, the secretary of health in Maryland. Poor families
   are often too disorganised to fill in forms, and many are illegal
   aliens shy of any contact with officialdom.

   The uninsured can still see a doctor by going to a hospital emergency
   room. But, as a glance at the crowded waiting area of the Johns
   Hopkins hospital in Baltimore reveals, that usually means a long wait.
   The uninsured often "don't seek help until they are really sick," says
   Ed Beranek, a director at the hospital. "By the time they arrive, that
   cold has turned into pneumonia." For lack of timely preventive
   measures, the uninsured get sicker than they need to and cost more to
   treat. That extra cost is then passed on to everyone else who uses the
   hospital.

   The politicians agree that the system is dysfunctional, but disagree
   on how to fix it. Democratic presidential candidates are pushing for
   universal coverage largely through greater public spending. The
   Republicans want to tinker with the current system to make private
   insurance more affordable. Rudy Giuliani, the Republican front-runner,
   says people should be able to buy insurance from any state, not just
   their own. That should make the market more competitive. Mitt Romney,
   another Republican, says that individuals should be allowed to buy
   health insurance with pre-tax dollars. (Currently, and unfairly, only
   employer-provided health insurance gets this tax break.) Critics note,
   however, that increasing the subsidy will surely stoke yet more
   health-care inflation.


   Gloating too soon 
   "Panic: Down by 13 points, Hill goes ballistic."

   Front-page headline of the New York Post, above unflattering photo of
   Hillary Clinton, January 7th. 

   It takes a village idiot 
   "Iron my shirt! Iron my shirt!"

   Two men in the audience offer Mrs Clinton some policy advice, January
   7th. 

   Poor thing 
   "Well, that hurts my feelings...I don't think I'm that bad."

   Hillary Clinton, asked why people don't think her likeable. ABC,
   January 5th. 

   Faint praise 
   "You're likeable enough, Hillary."

   Barack Obama offering comfort to his rival. ABC, January 5th. 

   But his teeth are perfect, too 
   "The chairman of Governor Huckabee's campaign said he'd like to knock
   my teeth out. My only comment on that is: Don't touch the hair."

   Mitt Romney, addressing the "too-pretty-to-be-president" question,
   [3]CNN.com, January 3rd.

   It's the other man from Hope 
   "We don't have men calling for our daughter."

   Connie Davis, a Christian whose 15-year-old daughter asked her family
   to donate to Mike Huckabee's campaign instead of giving her Christmas
   presents. Mr Huckabee tried to thank her, and her father answered the
   phone. New Hampshire Union-Leader, January 7th.

   Going negative 
   "Ronald Reagan did amnesty [for illegal immigrants]. I think he'd be
   in one of Mitt's negative commercials."

   Rudy Giuliani, joining the Romney-bashing at the Republican debate,
   January 5th. 


   Drugs and immigration woes are hurting parks along the border

   THE Rio Grande, whose sharp turn gives Big Bend National Park its
   name, is little more than a muddy creek these days. Drought and
   irrigation have sapped its strength. Deep canyons enclose the river at
   several spots, but Mexicans can still easily cross over. Plenty do so,
   illegally. Last year 1,160 people were caught in the park,
   which--together with an adjacent "wild and scenic" river
   area--stretches for 245 miles (395km), or about one-fifth of Texas's
   border with Mexico. More than 23,000lb (10,433kg) of marijuana were
   seized in the park, too--a huge jump from the previous year, though no
   one quite knows why. Seizures have since fallen back to their previous
   levels again.

   Visitors to Big Bend are more likely to see herds of pig-like
   javelinas than illegal human activity. But at border parks across
   America smuggling is a huge headache. Rangers must worry not only
   about rescuing lost hikers and conserving nature, but also about
   security. Elsewhere in Texas, officials at Padre Island National
   Seashore, working with the Coast Guard and other agencies, seize about
   25,000lb of marijuana each year from incoming boats.

   The worst-hit place is Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument in Arizona,
   which is part of the parks system. In 2002 a young ranger on patrol
   there was killed by drug dealers. Last year the Park Service arrested
   1,300 people for illegal activity and nabbed 17,000lb of marijuana.
   The Border Patrol arrested another 6,500 people on the park's land,
   and impounded more drugs. Rangers spend most of their time on security
   issues, says Kathy Billings, the park superintendent--and the traffic
   has created a "spiderweb" of illegal trails, not to mention rubbish,
   that damage the fragile landscape.

   The good news is that the very features that distinguish parks--rugged
   terrain, glaciers, rushing water, a lack of roads--usually obstruct
   smugglers. But even the mountainous parks bordering Canada have their
   troubles. North Cascades National Park, in the north-west, may be the
   only park in America to have captured someone who tried to carry out a
   terrorist plot. Abu Mezer, a Palestinian, was arrested in 1996 in
   North Cascades and was sent back to Canada. After trying several more
   times to enter America, he was arrested in New York City in 1997 in
   connection with a plot to bomb the subway.

   Nowadays, at North Cascades as elsewhere near Canada, the main problem
   is drugs. Immigration and customs officials recently announced that a
   joint operation with Canadian Mounties, Operation Frozen Timber, had
   confiscated 8,000lb of marijuana and 800lb of cocaine in and around
   the park since 2004. The smugglers were using helicopters to drop
   marijuana into North Cascades and the nearby national forests; the
   cocaine was mostly going the other way, into Canada.

   To the east, in Glacier National Park, there have been a few
   documented cases of illegal cross-border traffic--though the
   mountains, cliffs and grizzlies act as a deterrent, says Patrick
   Suddath, a ranger. Glacier allows boats from its sister park in Canada
   to enter at a scenic spot called Goat Haunt, but only Canadians and
   Americans with the proper documents may venture beyond the ranger
   station.

   Border tightening has also changed the way of life in some parks. In
   the old days at Big Bend, Mexican villagers would routinely cross the
   border to sell their wares and to buy milk and petrol from park
   stores. American tourists also liked to venture over to the Mexican
   side for a tortilla or cerveza; Mexicans provided transport in the
   form of boats and burros. But all crossings at Big Bend were closed in
   2002. A petrol station in Big Bend's Rio Grande village promptly lost
   75% of its revenue, and the Mexicans let their newly unemployed burros
   loose, resulting in a burro explosion. The park makes an exception now
   only for 40 or so Mexican firemen, who are on standby for summer
   blazes.

   Parks must also keep wildlife in mind, since bears and elk do not
   pause for borders. Just last month Organ Pipe completed a vehicle
   barrier that is supposed to stop cars but allow the endangered Sonoran
   pronghorn, a type of antelope, to slip underneath. At Big Bend
   officials are circumspect about proposals in Congress to erect a fence
   across parts of the southern border, though their own park is not
   included in current bills. "You would not have any desire to build a
   fence on top of a 1,500-foot escarpment," says David Elkowitz, the
   park's interpretation chief. Even without a fence, dreams of creating
   an international park along the border, joining Mexican and American
   land, seem permanently on hold.


                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images

   Hillary Clinton's triumph in New Hampshire portends a thrilling race 


   LAST May, the Onion ran a picture of Barack Obama standing behind the
   junior senator from New York with the headline: "Hillary Clinton
   Threatened by Black Man". The spoof newspaper was prescient. On
   January 3rd in Iowa, Mr Obama walloped Mrs Clinton by eight percentage
   points. John Edwards, a former senator who blames greedy corporations
   for most of the world's troubles, nudged her into third place. The
   polls, which only last month put Mrs Clinton 30 points ahead
   nationally, suddenly showed her crashing towards oblivion. Mr Obama
   looked set to romp to the Democratic nomination.

   Hostile pundits waltzed on Mrs Clinton's political grave. "Thank you,
   Senator Obama," wrote Bill Kristol, a conservative columnist. "There
   will be no Clinton Restoration. A nation turns its grateful eyes to
   you." He danced too soon. Though the polls said she would lose heavily
   in New Hampshire on January 8th, she won, by 39% to 36%. "Together,
   let's give America the kind of comeback that New Hampshire has just
   given me," she beamed.

   The policy differences between the two leading Democrats are slight.
   Neither of them is George Bush. Both would pull American forces out of
   Iraq as soon as circumstances allow. Both would fight climate change.
   Mrs Clinton promises universal health insurance; Mr Obama would make
   it nearly universal. But this is not what excites their supporters.

   As the Onion suggested, the contest is flavoured by race and sex.
   Democrats would love to pick America's first black president. They
   would also love to pick its first female one. But they cannot do both;
   at least not this year. So they must choose. If women, who are a
   majority of the electorate, want first and foremost to put one of
   their own in the Oval Office, that obviously favours Mrs Clinton.
   There are not nearly as many black voters as female ones, but there
   are plenty of whites who yearn to prove that they are not racist. Mr
   Obama makes such people feel good about themselves.

   Mrs Clinton does not have the same soothing effect on male voters; for
   some, quite the opposite. But she is more experienced than her rival,
   having advised a president (her husband) for eight years. She also has
   awesome stamina, an orderly mind, a terrific organisation and a will
   to power that would make Nietzsche sit up and take notice.

   She met her loss in Iowa with her customary steel. She modified her
   stump speech, trying to sound more empathetic by talking softly and
   taking more questions from the audience. And she stepped up what she
   once called "the fun part" of the campaign--attacking her opponent.

   She poured scorn on his inexperience. It is not enough to hope for
   change, she said; you have to work for it. The idea that Mr Obama can
   live up to expectations is "the biggest fairy tale I have ever seen,"
   said her husband. Mrs Clinton zapped Mr Obama for flip-flopping. He
   used to favour universal health insurance, she said; now he doesn't.
   He opposed the Iraq war but voted to pay for its continuation.

   Mrs Clinton's speeches still include a long and slightly tedious list
   of micro-policies. She cannot whip up ecstasy the way Mr Obama does.
   But governing is not about making pretty speeches, say her supporters.
   It is about getting things done. That, of course, is what Republicans
   said when a certain slick young governor of Arkansas ran against
   George Bush senior, a sitting president, war hero, former ambassador
   and former head of the CIA.

   The day before the New Hampshire vote, Mrs Clinton looked sad and
   vulnerable. Someone asked how she coped. "It's not easy," she said,
   growing teary-eyed. "I couldn't do it if I just didn't passionately
   believe it was the right thing to do." Of possible defeat she said: "I
   just don't want to see [America] fall backwards."

   Victory in New Hampshire tossed her a lifeline when she was expecting
   a whack on the head with a boathook. Many people support her because
   they think she is the best woman for the job. But some do so only
   because they think she is the Democrat most likely to beat the
   Republican nominee in November. Many of her donors, too, open their
   wallets in the hope of future access to power. Had she lost two states
   in a row, those wallets would have started snapping shut.

   Mrs Clinton's remarkable comeback took place in the same state where
   her husband labelled himself "the Comeback Kid" after coming second in
   1992. As a candidate, the brilliant but disorganised Bill Clinton
   benefited hugely from his wife's complementary talents: her discipline
   helped keep him focused. With roles reversed, it ought to be harder.
   Bill cannot easily lend Hillary his charisma. But the political
   machine the two Clintons built together can work for either of them.

   And that machine does seem to have made the difference. If the exit
   polls are right, there was no late surge of people suddenly deciding
   to support Mrs Clinton. Her real advantage was among those who made up
   their mind more than a month ago, a group she won by 48% to 31%. So
   the pre-election polls were wrong, not because people changed their
   minds at the last moment, but because telephone pollsters
   underestimated Mrs Clinton's ability to drive and drag her supporters
   to the polling stations, argues Jay Cost of [4]RealClearPolitics.com,
   a political website.

   The exit polls also suggest that Mrs Clinton won New Hampshire by
   winning over traditional types of Democrat. She beat Mr Obama among
   registered Democrats, people over 40, union families, voters without
   college degrees and families making less than $50,000 a year. Mr Obama
   won the independents who voted in the Democratic primary, the
   first-time voters, the young, the college-educated and the well-off.
   Voters who said they were falling behind economically opted for Mrs
   Clinton; those who feel they are getting ahead preferred Mr Obama's
   more upbeat message.

   And the biggest change since Iowa was that Mrs Clinton, who lost the
   female vote to Mr Obama there, won it back convincingly in New
   Hampshire, by 46% to 34%. Mr Obama won the male vote by 40% to 29%,
   but more women than men showed up to vote (57% to 43%).

   The polls suggest that Mrs Clinton could win the next race, in Nevada,
   and Mr Obama will win South Carolina, which has a large black
   population. Anything might then happen on February 5th, when more than
   20 states vote. Both candidates have the cash and the fame to compete.
   But the momentum is back with Mrs Clinton. The dynasty is not dead, at
   least not yet.


   Hillary Clinton unveils a promising health plan

   AFTER months of preparation, Hillary Clinton this week finally put
   forward her new plan to provide health coverage for all Americans.
   Crucially, she did it without calling for the large government
   bureaucracy envisaged by her earlier attempt at reform in 1993, dubbed
   "Hillarycare" by its detractors.

   Barack Obama and John Edwards were quick to dismiss her plan this
   week, but that may be because her well-crafted effort improves on
   theirs. The three Democratic candidates' plans are similar in that
   they all aim to help the 47m or so uninsured to get coverage. However,
   they differ in important details (see chart).

   The most important component of Mrs Clinton's plan is its universal
   mandate. All individuals will be required to purchase health insurance
   if they are not already covered, just as under a new programme in
   Massachusetts (and under Mr Edwards's plan). This matters because
   without such a mandate, many young and healthy people opt out, raising
   the cost of insuring the remaining, sicker people. Mr Obama slips
   around on this point, invoking a mandate only for children.

   That is because he knows such mandates can be unpopular with many
   middle class voters, for whom insurance can prove too expensive. To
   help ease this crunch, the Massachusetts reform plan offers targeted
   subsidies as well as a rejigging of the insurance market with the aim
   of ensuring inexpensive, "bare bones" coverage packages are on offer.

   Mrs Clinton tackles this problem of affordability in several ways. Her
   plan also offers subsidies to help the poor buy insurance. Individuals
   can either buy insurance from private firms directly, through a scheme
   that currently serves federal employees or from a new scheme modelled
   on and administered by Medicare, a government programme that treats
   the poor. (The non-poor would have to pay to join the new programme,
   which would compete with private health providers.) Most strikingly,
   she envisages imposing a cap on the maximum premium that any family
   would have to pay for health insurance: beyond a certain (as yet
   unspecified) share of household income, the family would get
   subsidies.

   The other half of Mrs Clinton's mandate affects employers. Like her
   Democratic rivals, she plans to oblige all firms to offer health
   insurance to workers. Many big firms already do so because the federal
   government provides a tax subsidy for employer-provided health
   insurance (but, unfairly, not for insurance purchased by self-employed
   individuals). But even with this break, small firms often cannot
   afford to offer coverage, and bigger ones are being forced to cut
   back.

   Mr Obama excludes small firms from his mandate. Mr Edwards insists on
   a "pay or play" provision: if firms do not offer coverage they must
   pay what is in effect a payroll tax. Mrs Clinton uses both carrots and
   sticks. She uses the payroll tax approach with big firms, but gives a
   subsidy to small businesses to encourage them to offer health
   insurance. The sum of all these parts, argues Jason Furman of the
   Hamilton Project, a policy outfit in Washington, DC, is "a
   substantively good and politically clever" health plan.

   But how much will all this end up costing? About $110 billion per
   year, Mrs Clinton's team reckons. One way she intends to pay for that
   is to roll back George Bush's recent tax cuts for the richest people.

   She has also unveiled a series of proposals over the past six months
   that encourage savings in the health sector to offset much of that new
   cost: improved efficiency, greater use of information technology,
   electronic medical records, improved quality of care and so on.
   Independent experts agree that big savings in those areas are
   possible, but caution that reform will not be easy to implement.

   But what if those ambitious savings do not come quickly, or if the
   subsidies end up costing much more? Regina Herzlinger of Harvard
   Business School applauds Mrs Clinton's push for universal coverage,
   but cautions that the cost of her approach may be closer to $150
   billion-200 billion per year. If so, would the plan then require a
   vast expansion of Medicare or huge new taxes--Hillarycare by the back
   door, as some critics say?

   Not necessarily, argues Mr Furman. He observes that alone among her
   rivals, Mrs Clinton has dared to propose reforming the employer tax
   break for providing health insurance. Jonathan Gruber of MIT
   calculates that this tax distortion costs the taxpayer $225 billion a
   year--money he thinks could be redeployed to scale up the
   Massachusetts experiment nationally.

   For now, Mrs Clinton proposes scaling back the tax break only for the
   richest Americans, those whose households earn more than $250,000 a
   year. That would save only a few billion dollars a year, but it would
   establish that this indefensible but hugely popular tax distortion is
   no longer untouchable. In time, the proposal could prove to be the
   thin end of a wedge that overturns that benefit altogether, freeing up
   a large kitty that could finance the move to universal care.


   What a new park reveals about attitudes to public space

   JUST east of downtown Irvine, in southern California, a bucolic
   landscape is under construction. Little by little, a former military
   airport is being dismantled, to be replaced by grass, trees and a
   canyon 70 feet (21 metres) deep. When it is finished, Orange county's
   Great Park will cover 1,350 acres (550 hectares), more than
   one-and-a-half times as much as Central Park in New York. The biggest
   landscaped municipal park to be built in more than a century, it
   reveals much about how American attitudes to open space have changed.

   Urban parks are back in fashion. In Denver, an 80-acre park opened in
   September on the site of another disused airport. New York plans to
   build a huge park on top of the Fresh Kills landfill in Staten Island.
   Innumerable town squares and pocket parks have been created or
   beautified, even in gritty places like Detroit. City planners, who
   once viewed parks as financial drains and nests of crime, now see them
   as magnets for tourists and creative types.

   The great parks that were built in the second half of the 19th century
   were intended to counteract the ill effects of city living, and so are
   the new ones. But the perceived ills have changed. Frederick Olmsted,
   who designed Central Park and many others, wanted to provide people
   with a respite from their tough, dirty jobs. Ken Smith, the Great
   Park's architect, reckons the residents of Orange county are quite
   idle enough. What they need is exercise: hence the park's proposed 21
   football fields and 12 baseball fields, together with some
   exhausting-looking walks.

   Another difference is that parks are now expected to function like
   natural ecosystems as well as looking like them. The Great Park will
   use recycled water in its lake (older parks often used mains water).
   The runways will be pulverised and turned into roads and a memorial.
   In a nod to the local-food movement, the park will include land for
   farming and composting. Even the car park will be situated in an
   orange grove.

   Most striking of all is the new parks' deference to history. America's
   great 19th-century landscape architects saw the land as a blank slate.
   An entire village was razed to build Central Park. By contrast,
   Denver's park preserves a control tower, and the Great Park will
   convert a hangar into a museum and retain the outline of a runway. A
   river diverted underground by the marines will be restored to its
   former course. The preservation lobby is stronger these days. And
   besides, says Yehudi Gaffen, a partner in the Great Park project,
   "Southern California has so little history that we should try to keep
   some of it."


   The ex-Veep lectures Congress


   GLOBAL-WARMING sceptics, says Al Gore, are looking at a burning cradle
   and speculating that perhaps the baby is flame-resistant. Testifying
   before Congress on March 21st, the former vice-president was as
   cautious and understated as any other movie star. Mankind faces "a
   planetary emergency", he said; "a crisis that threatens the survival
   of our civilisation and the habitability of the Earth."

   He proposed a series of measures that might ward off the environmental
   apocalypse. First, freeze America's level of carbon dioxide emissions
   immediately, and then reduce it by 90% by 2050. Second, tear up the
   tax code. Without altering the total tax burden, Mr Gore thinks
   America should replace taxes on employment and production with taxes
   on pollution, particularly carbon dioxide.

   Third, use public money to help the poor make the transition to a
   low-carbon lifestyle. Fourth, forge a strong global treaty to cut
   emissions and put it into effect by 2010, two years earlier than
   currently envisaged. Fifth, stop building new coal-fired power plants,
   unless they can capture and sequester the carbon they emit.

   With the Democrats in control of Congress, environmentalists are more
   optimistic than they were last year that it might enact curbs on
   greenhouse gases. About a dozen bills are currently being considered.
   But nothing as radical as Mr Gore's proposals is likely to pass.

   Few in Congress deny that the earth is getting warmer or that man is
   at least partly to blame. But few can agree what to do about it,
   either. One obstacle is cost. Though Mr Gore denies it, freezing CO2
   emissions straight away would be ferociously expensive. That worries
   both parties. One Republican congressman fretted that Mr Gore's plan
   would mean no new industry, no new cars and no new people in America.
   John Dingell, a Democrat from the Detroit suburbs, lamented the rows
   of empty houses he sees in the city since the American car industry
   fell on hard times.

   Another obstacle is inertia. If Congress were creating a tax code from
   scratch, it might well discourage pollution rather than work, as Mr
   Gore demands. But since it is not starting from scratch, such a big
   change will hurt a lot of people now in pursuit of benefits a
   generation hence.

   A third obstacle is that many in Congress are reluctant to make big
   sacrifices if China and India do not also sign up to them, which
   neither wants to. Mr Gore says it is up to America to show leadership.

   The Democrats have two options. They can push now for the toughest
   carbon-curbing law that will survive a filibuster in the Senate and a
   possible veto by President George Bush. Or they can wait two years and
   hope to pass something tougher in 2009, with someone greener in the
   White House. Mr Gore says there is no time to waste, but Congress may
   waste it anyway.

   Meanwhile, Mr Gore appears to be enjoying the limelight. He says he
   will not seek the presidency again, but many Democrats wish he would.
   Since he quit politics for advocacy, he has sounded more passionate
   and less calculating than Hillary Clinton, the front-runner for the
   Democratic nomination. But still, only 7% of Americans think the
   environment or global warming should be the government's priority.


                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   After Mitt Romney's victory, no one has the slightest idea who will
   win the Republican presidential nomination 


   "I'VE got Michigan in my DNA. I've got it in my heart and I've got
   cars in my bloodstream." That was Mitt Romney before he won the
   Republican primary in Michigan this week, thumping John McCain by 39%
   to 30% and leaving Mike Huckabee flat in the snow with 16%. Presumably
   he now likes the place even more.

   His rivals instantly discounted his victory. Mr Romney grew up in
   Michigan. His father, George Romney, was a popular governor in the
   1960s. The day before the primary, Mr Romney showed a friendly crowd
   at a country club some souvenirs of his dad's unsuccessful bid for the
   White House. There was a campaign comb (cue for a quip about the
   family hair), some campaign pins and a slogan: "Set our country
   straight: Romney in 68". The crowd loved it. But voters in South
   Carolina will be harder to sway.

   That said, Mr Romney ran a smarter campaign in Michigan than in Iowa
   and New Hampshire, where he aimed lots of negative ads at Mr Huckabee
   and Mr McCain but lost. In Michigan, his message was more upbeat. He
   talked a lot about the economy, and sold himself as the candidate best
   qualified to fix it. Mr McCain, who won Michigan in 2000, helped him
   by sounding gloomier. He said, probably correctly, that some of the
   jobs Michigan has lost will never come back.

   Exit polls showed that voters cared more about the economy than
   anything else. Small wonder: Michigan has stalled. Its car firms are
   ailing; its people are leaving. Unemployment, at 7.4%, is the highest
   in America. Voters judged Mr Romney most capable of easing their pain.
   A successful venture capitalist before he was governor of
   Massachusetts, he palpably knows more about money than his rivals.

   The candidates all pandered to Michigan's biggest special interest. At
   the Detroit motor show they all followed the same routine: the nod (as
   a car-company executive described the latest model), the `ah' (of
   admiration) and the fiddle (with various gadgets in the car).
   Naturally, they shunned foreign vehicles like a handshake with Osama
   bin Laden.

   Mr McCain pandered the least. On the stump, he banged on about climate
   change. (His home state of Arizona is so dry, he said, the trees chase
   the dogs.) Mr Huckabee pandered the most empathetically, staring into
   insecure workers' eyes and announcing that "there's a world of hurt
   out there in America." Mr Romney pandered with the most facts at his
   fingertips, helped by the fact that his dad was a car-firm boss before
   he was a politician.

   In his first 100 days in office, Mr Romney said he would bring
   together car firms, unions and government and make a plan to revive
   the industry. He would reduce taxes, trim regulations, make health
   insurance (a huge chunk of the cost of an American car) cheaper and
   curb frivolous lawsuits. He would also slow the tightening of
   fuel-economy standards. "Take off those burdens and let's show them
   how fast a Mustang will actually go," he said.

   Mr Romney has come first or second in all the votes so far. His people
   tout him as the most acceptable candidate to the broadest range of
   Republicans. Fiscal conservatives like him. Evangelicals may not love
   him as they do Mr Huckabee, a Baptist preacher, but they concur with
   his current positions on abortion and gay marriage. He lacks Mr
   McCain's national-security credentials, but says he will keep the
   armed forces strong. Add brains and good looks, and you have a
   plausible nominee, though his Mormonism and his policy shifts are
   problems for many.

   Mr Romney's detractors offer several rebuttals. John McCain's fans
   note that in head-to-head polls against Hillary Clinton and Barack
   Obama, their man is the only Republican who wins. But a lot could
   change before November, and the qualities that attract independent
   voters to Mr McCain, such as his liberal views on immigration, repel
   many Republicans.

   Mr Huckabee's fans reckon that Mr Romney will lose because his money
   can't buy him charisma. And it is indeed hard to imagine him strumming
   a guitar, cracking jokes about the Rolling Stones or getting in a
   snowball fight outside a polling booth, as Mr Huckabee did in
   Michigan.

   Mr Romney did well in nearly every Republican group in Michigan--he
   even beat Mr Huckabee among evangelicals. But he has yet to prove
   himself on unfamiliar terrain. And he cannot win nationally unless he
   attracts more support from less prosperous people. Shortly before he
   addressed that friendly country club, someone announced that three
   cars were parked inappropriately outside: a silver Mercedes, a red
   Jaguar and a gold one.

   Three lessons can be drawn from Michigan. One is that the race for the
   Republican nomination is even more open than before. Three frenzied
   contests have thrown up three winners. (Mr Romney also won Wyoming, a
   race his rivals skipped.) South Carolina on January 19th will be a
   bare-knuckle scrap. Rudy Giuliani, a former mayor of New York, will
   join the mle on January 29th in Florida. No one has the slightest
   idea who will win.

   The second lesson is that if America tips into recession, the sirens
   of populism will warble louder. A conventional economic conservative
   won this week, but only by echoing some populist refrains. Both Mr
   Romney and Mr McCain are free-traders, but both suggest on the stump
   that some types of trade are unfair. And nearly all candidates in both
   parties hint that switching to alternative fuels will cut off funds
   for Islamic terrorism, by reducing the price of oil. This is bunk.
   Only an imperceptible portion of petrodollars bankroll terrorism,
   which is anyway quite cheap. Al-Qaeda coped just fine when oil was $10
   a barrel.

   The third lesson is that although political junkies have been obsessed
   with the campaign for more than a year, many Americans have barely
   begun to think about it. Turnout in Michigan was low. Standing behind
   floor-to-ceiling bulletproof glass, the manager of a liquor store in
   downtown Detroit said he did not realise there was an election going
   on. "You're from a newspaper?" he asked. "You want to sell it in my
   store?"




   Can the president achieve anything before he leaves the White House? 


   FEW presidents have a pleasant time of it in their last year in
   office. Their chickens come home to roost. Their political capital
   dries up. Their advisers start worrying where their next pay cheque
   will come from. The entire country is fixated on the question of who
   will replace them.

   Woodrow Wilson was humiliated by America's failure to join the League
   of Nations and then incapacitated by a stroke. Dwight Eisenhower was
   haunted by Sputnik and his multiplying medical problems. Ronald Reagan
   and Bill Clinton had to deal with the fallout from Iran-Contra and
   Monica Lewinsky respectively.

   George Bush is likely to have a better year than Wilson (he is
   remarkably fit for a 61-year-old), but a worse one than most other
   presidents. Yet 2007 was a surprisingly good year after the debacles
   of 2006. The "surge" in Iraq proved fairly successful--and vindicated
   Mr Bush's decision to back his own judgment against the collective
   wisdom of the Iraq Study Group. The White House also played a
   successful defensive game against the Democratic-controlled Congress,
   outmanoeuvring it on everything from Iraq funding to the federal
   budget to energy bills to wire-tapping. Mr Bush blocked the expansion
   of a children's health insurance programme of which he disapproved. He
   is now talking about ending his presidency "in a sprint".

   This is unlikely. Mr Bush has little going for him in 2008. Only one
   in three Americans thinks that he is doing a good job. Almost all of
   his closest political advisers have decamped. Congress is determined
   to get its revenge and block anything that he sends it. And in reality
   he has much less than a year to play with. Congress leaves for its
   summer break in August (thereafter it will do little but pass
   appropriations bills). If the Republican Party chooses a champion in
   the next couple of months, he will to some extent cede the leadership
   of his party; if it fails to choose a champion, as many people are now
   speculating, the country will be agog at the prospect of a party
   convention at which the nomination is still up for grabs. Mr Bush's
   last chance to command the national spotlight may come as soon as the
   state-of-the-union address on January 28th.

   And, with his power ebbing, he faces a mountain of problems at home
   and abroad. The economy is softening. A wave of foreclosures is
   damping consumer spending and spreading anger. The fires of populism
   are burning ever more brightly. There are widespread calls for a
   stimulus package to revive the economy.

   More than most presidents, Mr Bush is also a hostage to foreign events
   over which he has little control. The current implosion in Pakistan is
   just one more reminder of the instability of the greater Middle East.
   If the surge continues to be successful, Mr Bush will have some reason
   for self-congratulation; if it falters and fails, he will leave office
   a broken man.

   Mr Bush has no choice but to pursue a modest domestic agenda. The man
   who once mocked his predecessor for playing "small ball" is doing just
   that. The White House talks about focusing on "kitchen table" issues
   such as tweaking the health-care system. Mr Bush even recently
   travelled to Chesapeake Bay to announce federal protection for two
   species of fish, the striped bass and the red drum.

   But there are nevertheless a couple of matters that qualify as a bit
   more than "small ball". Mr Bush will do his best to defend the two
   most important domestic achievements of his first term--the No Child
   Left Behind Act (which aims to raise standards in schools and which
   needs to be reauthorised) and his tax cuts (which are due to expire in
   2010). He will argue that extending the tax cuts is the best way to
   revive a slowing economy. He will also dare the Democrats to resist
   his "stimulus package" and risk being blamed by voters for a
   recession.

   Mr Bush is also determined to push through what is left of his trade
   agenda, including pacts with Colombia and South Korea. But much of his
   energy will be spent trying to block China-bashing legislation in
   Congress. This year is likely to see rising anxiety about the economic
   and military threat from China, as the publicity surrounding the
   summer Olympics in Beijing confronts Americans with yet more evidence
   of China's rise.

   Mr Bush's last year will be dominated by foreign policy. This is
   partly inevitable--he is fighting wars in Iraq and Afghanistan as well
   as a more general "war on terror". But it is also a matter of choice.
   Most presidents decide to escape from their domestic bonds in their
   final year--particularly if they face a hostile Congress and an
   unforgiving press corps--and Mr Bush is no exception.

   Mr Bush will fly to Israel in the next few days (his first visit there
   as president) in order to build on the momentum of November's
   Annapolis summit. He will also visit other places in the region,
   including the West Bank, Saudi Arabia and Egypt. A month later he will
   travel to Africa. Mr Bush also has several global summits on his
   agenda--ranging from a NATO meeting in Romania in April to an
   Asia-Pacific economic summit in Peru--as well as a visit to the
   Beijing Olympics in the summer. The White House explains the
   president's new-found Wanderlust by saying that "We want to be well
   perceived in the world".

   Reagan and Mr Clinton both offset their domestic troubles with big
   foreign initiatives at the fag end of their presidencies--Reagan by
   negotiating with Mikhail Gorbachev and Mr Clinton by throwing himself
   into trying to bring peace to Ireland and the Middle East. Mr Bush is
   unlikely to be so successful. He is widely unpopular in the Arab
   world, and the Palestinians are in no fit state to negotiate. As for
   the White House's wish to be "well perceived in the world", the less
   said the better.

   But his trip to Africa might prove surprisingly successful--and might
   highlight one of his unsung achievements. The Bush administration has
   allocated $15 billion to fighting HIV and AIDS in Africa and $1.2
   billion to prevent the spread of malaria. Partly because of this
   Africa is one of the few parts of the world where America's reputation
   has remained high during the Bush years.

   Africa will be the highlight of an otherwise dismal year. Mr Bush
   always wanted to be a "transformational" president. Most of his last
   year will be spent on the back foot--defending his tax cuts and
   dealing with the consequences of his "transformation" of Iraq. The
   rest will be small ball.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   John Edwards trails in third place. But his policy ideas are shaping
   the Democratic presidential race 

   HE STRIDES into an Iowa primary school where more than a hundred
   people have skipped their lunch to hear him, wearing jeans and
   flashing a smile that could sell toothpaste. He begins, as always, by
   mentioning his wife, who was diagnosed with incurable cancer in March.
   "She's doing great." But within seconds, John Edwards dives into the
   details of his health-care scheme. Then on to questions. The subjects
   range from high medical costs to the influence of Iran. "Here's what I
   think," he answers, before launching into a detailed plan to fix the
   problem.

   Mr Edwards is a man of big plans. No other presidential candidate, of
   either party, can match the sheer quantity, let alone the ambition, of
   his policy ideas. He has grand, progressive, goals--to end the war in
   Iraq (obviously), provide universal health care, address global
   warming, eliminate poverty in America within 30 years--and detailed
   blueprints of how to do it all.

   All this is a big change from 2004, when he first ran, unsuccessfully,
   for the Democratic nomination and then (equally unsuccessfully) as
   John Kerry's vice-presidential running-mate. Those campaigns were
   built around his youthful charm, made-for-politics biography (the son
   of a mill-worker in North Carolina; the first member of his family to
   go to college) and a rousing stump speech about "two Americas", one
   for the rich and one for the rest.

   His life-story loomed large because the dashing former trial lawyer
   was short of both substance and political experience. He was a
   one-term senator with a silver tongue and populist touch but an
   unremarkable legislative record. (He voted against two of George
   Bush's three tax cuts but for the war in Iraq.)

   Four years on, his experience of government is still thin. Having left
   the Senate in 2004 he has spent less time making laws (six years) than
   Barack Obama, who was a state senator for eight years and has been a
   senator in Washington for two and a half. But Mr Edwards is no longer
   a policy neophyte. Instead, he has positioned himself as the voice of
   his party's left wing. He renounced his support for the Iraq war in
   2005 (Mr Obama never supported it, however) and has been a powerful
   critic since. He has steeped himself in progressive causes,
   particularly the battle against poverty, founding a centre at the
   University of North Carolina to study ways to combat deprivation. And
   he has assiduously built ties with the unions.

   The transformation on Iraq is the most dramatic. Mr Edwards wants
   American soldiers out fast (an immediate reduction of 40,000-50,000,
   followed by an "orderly and complete" withdrawal of combat forces
   within a year). He excoriates Congress and his Democratic rivals for
   failing to force the president's hand by denying funding for the war.
   "Congress has a responsibility to force George Bush to end this war,"
   he intones in every speech. No serious Democratic candidate is more
   searing in his condemnation of America's present course. (The war on
   terror is a "bumper-sticker, not a plan", he mocks.)

   But far from turning inward to concentrate on domestic problems, he
   wants to "re-engage the world with the full weight of [America's]
   moral leadership". That demands change at home, notably on global
   warming, but also commitments abroad. Enough troops should stay near
   Iraq to "prevent a genocide, deter a regional spillover of the civil
   war, and prevent an al-Qaeda safe haven". He wants a big increase in
   foreign aid and a "Marshall Corps" of 10,000 bankers, political
   scientists and other experts to help failing states. There is a
   dissonance here. How can Mr Edwards pull out of Iraq while also
   forestalling the re-emergence of al-Qaeda? But for all his efforts to
   woo the anti-war wing, he is free of the isolationist flavour of most
   populist politicians.

   Champion of the poor

   On economics, too, the Edwards brand of populism is hard to
   pigeonhole. With roots in the textile mills and strong links to the
   unions, he is regarded as the most protectionist of the Democratic
   front-runners--though the margins are narrowing fast as Hillary
   Clinton stages a retreat from her husband's embrace of free trade.

   He offers plenty of standard populist cant: lots of talk about
   "fairness"; rants against oil firms for price gouging and drug
   companies for rocketing health costs; and--this year's favourite
   villain--anger at mortgage lenders for ripping off poor home-owners.
   (He calls it the "wild west of the credit industry, where...abusive
   and predatory lenders are robbing families blind.") A recent speech
   decried an economy that rewarded "wealth not work", a tax system that
   favoured the rich and a government that served only special interests.
   Yet for all that Mr Edwards is less a redistributionist firebrand than
   a big-government do-gooder. He is intent on helping the poor more than
   soaking the rich; his inspiration is Robert Kennedy, not Huey Long.

   The Edwards campaign openly evokes RFK's 1968 presidential bid, which
   combined vocal opposition to an unpopular war with a telegenic focus
   on alleviating poverty. Mr Edwards launched his candidacy outside a
   wrecked house in New Orleans's ninth ward. This week he spent three
   days on an anti-poverty tour, one that finished, not uncoincidentally,
   in Prestonburg, Kentucky, where Kennedy ended his own poverty tour 40
   years ago.

   Look beyond the unsubtle imagery, however, and Mr Edwards's
   anti-poverty plan is an intriguing mix. His goals are bold--to cut
   America's poverty rate of 12.6% by a third within a decade--but the
   means are mainstream. His policy arsenal includes expanding the Earned
   Income Tax Credit, a kind of negative income tax that tops up the
   earnings of poorer Americans; giving poor people "work bonds" to boost
   their saving; and providing 1m housing vouchers to help poor families
   move to better neighbourhoods. Policy wonks argue about whether these
   ideas, particularly housing vouchers, will work, but they could all
   have come from a centrist Democratic think-tank.

   The combination of bold goals and mainstream means is evident in two
   other Edwards plans: health care and energy reform. And it is why his
   campaign, regardless of its electoral fortunes, is shaping the
   Democratic race. Unable to dismiss his proposals as crazy radicalism,
   the other candidates have to be both bolder and more detailed than
   they would like.

   Consider health. Mr Edwards released his ideas for universal insurance
   in February, almost two years before election day. He steered clear of
   the approach favoured by the party's left--a single-payer system, like
   Canada's or Britain's. Instead his plan has ingredients that were
   introduced in Massachusetts by Mitt Romney, now a Republican
   presidential candidate: an overhaul of insurance markets, subsidies to
   help poorer people pay their premiums, taxes on firms that do not
   provide health-care coverage for their workers, and a requirement that
   everyone should buy health insurance.

   His proposal does nod to the left: a government health scheme, akin to
   Medicare, would compete with private insurers, potentially opening the
   door to a single-payer system if everyone chose to join the public
   scheme. But it does not seem threateningly radical. As a result, it
   has become the standard against which other Democratic candidates are
   judged. Mr Obama, who recently released a paler version of the Edwards
   ideas, was criticised for not requiring people to buy health
   insurance.

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                                   How it ended last time

   On global warming, too, the Edwards campaign has set the pace. He
   wants to reduce America's greenhouse-gas emissions by 80% before 2050
   with a cap-and-trade system of carbon permits. He also touts reforms
   of the electricity grid, improvements in energy efficiency and vast
   investment in renewable energy. Those targets match the toughest bill
   now in Congress. Mrs Clinton and Mr Obama signed on to this bill soon
   after the Edwards energy plan was released.

   These ideas do not come cheap. Universal health care will cost some
   $90 billion-$120 billion a year; the poverty plan $15 billion-$20
   billion; the renewable energy fund another $13 billion (though the
   auction of carbon permits and elimination of subsidies for oil firms
   should cover some of that). Add in a rag-bag of other ideas and you
   easily reach some $150 billion of new spending a year, well over 1% of
   GDP. That, however, is about what the Iraq war is currently consuming.

   Plainly, the new spending will require higher taxes. Mr Edwards has
   been more willing than his competitors to admit that he will go beyond
   the Democrat commonplace of rolling back Mr Bush's tax cuts for those
   making over $200,000. He has hinted at raising the tax rate on capital
   gains, arguing that it is "not right" for income from wealth and work
   to be treated differently. Recently he became the first presidential
   candidate to endorse Democratic lawmakers' efforts to end the
   preferential taxation of "carried interest", a tax loophole for
   private-equity firms and hedge funds.

   The three Hs

   Raising taxes on hedge funds fits the image Mr Edwards is trying for.
   But it also points to his biggest weaknesses, known as the "three Hs".
   The working-class hero worked for a hedge fund, earning $479,000 as a
   consultant for Fortress Investment Group last year; he is building a
   28,000ft (2,600 square metre) house; and he charged two $400 haircuts
   to his campaign.

   An expensively coiffed mansion-builder is all too easy to ridicule as
   a champion of the poor. And the haircut gaffe echoes the reputation
   for preferring style to substance that dogged Mr Edwards in 2004.
   (Judging by a gaggle of schoolteachers in Iowa, the pretty-boy problem
   has not gone away. "Can I lift up his coat?" giggled one as she waited
   for a photograph.)

   By and large, though, Iowa Democrats are buying Mr Edwards's brand of
   populism. He has campaigned hard there, visiting the state more than
   20 times in the past two years. His strategy depends on doing well in
   the first-off Iowa caucuses, and at present he leads the pack in polls
   there, though Mrs Clinton is closing in fast. Nationally, Mr Edwards
   trails far behind Mrs Clinton and Mr Obama, both in polls and the race
   for cash. He raised only $9m between April and June, compared with Mr
   Obama's $32.5m.

   Surprisingly, perhaps, Mr Edwards's brand of populism seems to appeal
   to Republicans. When pitted against Republican candidates in polls, he
   scores better than the other Democratic front-runners. But it is the
   primaries that matter, and there Mr Edwards must hope for one of the
   others to stumble. If Obamamania fades, or the Clinton machine stalls,
   an Edwards nomination is just possible. But even if the man himself
   does not make it, the Democrats' presidential platform will be shaped
   by Mr Edwards's plans.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   Illegal immigration is one of the hottest issues of the election
   season 


   NO SUBJECT has discombobulated this year's presidential debates as
   much as immigration. Hillary Clinton's recent fall from grace dates
   from her refusal to give a straight answer to a question about whether
   she supports allowing illegal immigrants to have driving licences. On
   the Republican side, some of the testiest exchanges of the political
   season have been between Mitt Romney and Rudy Giuliani over illegal
   immigrants.

   Mr Romney accuses Mr Giuliani of running a "sanctuary city" when he
   was mayor of New York. Mr Giuliani accuses Mr Romney of living in a
   "sanctuary mansion" because the firm that he employs to do his
   gardening employs illegals (Mr Romney retorted that he could not be
   expected to verify the immigration status of everyone with a "funny
   accent" and later sacked the company). All very childish. But all very
   telling too.

   The rise of illegal immigration as an election issue is one of the
   most remarkable changes in American politics in recent decades. George
   Bush and Al Gore hardly discussed the subject--they both agreed that
   America needed to do a better job of providing illegal immigrants with
   a path to citizenship. The same was true of Mr Bush and John Kerry.

   The subject has nevertheless become a red-hot issue, dangerous to
   anyone who touches it. There are two obvious reasons for this. One is
   numbers: there are now an estimated 12m illegal immigrants living in
   the United States, and at least another half-million enter the country
   each year. America's growing Hispanic population is also spreading
   across the country--even reaching the all-important early-voting
   states of Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina. The other reason is
   the rise of anxiety about globalisation. A recent Pew Research Centre
   report shows that America has seen the biggest rise in worries about
   trade of any rich country since 2002. This is producing a populist
   backlash against both immigration and "broken borders".

   Twist and shout

   The mainstream Republican candidates are all on record as supporting
   fair-minded "comprehensive" immigration reform. John McCain sponsored
   a reform bill together with his Democratic colleague, Ted Kennedy. Mr
   Romney mocked the idea that you could deport 12m people. As mayor of
   New York, Mr Giuliani denounced federal immigration laws as harsh and
   unfair. As governor of Arkansas, Mike Huckabee supported allowing the
   children of illegal immigrants to claim cheap in-state tuition. As a
   senator for Tennessee, Fred Thompson supported an increase in the
   number of visas available for agricultural workers.

   The most outspoken "restrictionist" on the platform is Tom Tancredo,
   an obscure Republican congressman from Colorado. Mr Tancredo has made
   immigration reform--which to him means sending the 12m back home--the
   centrepiece of his campaign. He has produced advertisements linking
   illegal immigrants to terrorism and gang violence.

   Flaky stuff. But Mr Tancredo speaks for a sizeable portion of the
   Republican base. He helped to replace Mr McCain's immigration-reform
   bill with a harsher measure that authorised the building of a 700-mile
   (1,100km) fence along the Mexican border. And he--or at least
   Tancredoism--is having a remarkable influence on the Republican
   debate.

   The most shameless flip-flopper on immigration is Mr Romney. He now
   echoes Mr Tancredo's talk of "amnesty" and criticises his
   rivals--particularly Messrs Giuliani and Huckabee--for being soft on
   immigration. But others have followed in his direction. Mr Giuliani
   emphasises border security. Mr Huckabee has produced a "secure America
   plan". Mr Thompson threatens to "punish employers" who hire illegals.
   Even Mr McCain has hardened his line on immigration, though he
   continues to warn his party against demonising immigrants. Mr Tancredo
   now accuses his rivals of trying to "out-Tancredo Tancredo".

   This represents a repudiation of Mr Bush's strategy of welcoming
   Latinos into the Republican tent by supporting immigration reform. It
   also carries risks for the Republicans in the 2008 election--and
   indeed in future elections. Latinos are the fastest growing electoral
   block in the country. The Republicans could end up losing five
   Latino-rich states that Mr Bush won in 2004: Florida, Arizona, New
   Mexico, Nevada and Colorado.

   The Democratic candidates have been much more consistent in their
   support for comprehensive immigration reform. Every senator on the
   platform supported Mr McCain's legislation, for example. But they are
   also aware that the subject is a bear trap. Only two mainstream
   candidates, Mr Obama and Bill Richardson, have come out in favour of
   allowing illegal immigrants to obtain driving licences (Mrs Clinton
   resolved her internal debate by deciding against the idea). The
   mainstream candidates have been careful to avoid calling illegals
   "undocumented workers", the formulation favoured by pro-immigrant
   pressure groups in their party.

   They are right to be nervous. Most Americans are ambivalent about
   illegal immigration--proud of America's history as an
   immigrant-friendly country but hostile to anything that sanctions
   breaking the law and worried about the economic impact of immigration.
   The latest [4]Economist/YouGov poll (see chart) reveals a striking
   degree of concern about the threat that immigration poses both to
   "traditional American values" and economic well-being. Illegal
   immigrants also place huge burdens on America's hospitals, schools and
   prisons (there are, for instance, around 20,000 of them in
   California's jails).

   Worries about globalisation are strong among two of the Democratic
   Party's core constituencies--blue-collar workers and blacks. Some
   working-class Americans must compete for jobs with people who are in
   the country illegally. In California, English-speakers are fleeing
   urban schools where more than 70% of the children are Hispanics,
   forking out for private schools or homes in the suburbs.

   The driving-licence question is particularly dangerous for Democrats.
   Only 22% of the voters in a recent Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg poll
   supported allowing illegal immigrants to get licences. Eliot Spitzer,
   the governor of New York, saw his popularity collapse when he endorsed
   the idea. He has now retreated.

   This adds up to a big potential difficulty for Mr Obama in the
   election. James Carville, one of the most astute Democratic
   operatives, gives warning that "the centrality of illegal immigration
   to the current discontent about the direction of the country may be
   taking us back again to a `welfare moment'"--referring to Bill
   Clinton's decision to break with his party's base in supporting
   welfare reform.

   The problem of illegal immigration will continue to haunt the
   presidential race. Rightly so: no country should have 12m people
   living illegally within its borders. But awkwardly so from the
   perspective of the candidates: the issue pulls Americans in all sorts
   of contradictory directions. No wonder most politicians keep trying to
   duck the question--and no wonder the voters will not let them.


   Not yet: the Obama spell is stronger than that 


   ONE certainty emerges from the confusion of Iowa and New Hampshire:
   Barack Obama is still the shiniest star in the political firmament.
   The citizens of Iowa and New Hampshire are not a particularly
   demonstrative bunch. In Iowa they pride themselves on their Midwestern
   common sense; New Hampshirites on their ornery independence. But Mr
   Obama has stirred them as they have seldom been stirred before.

   People turned up in their thousands to listen to his speeches. They
   lined up for hours. They filled his every venue to the rafters. They
   high-fived and chanted ("fired up, ready to go"). They thrilled to his
   rhetoric. Mouldering old political hacks declared that they had not
   seen anything like this since JFK.

   The magic worked well in Iowa. Mr Obama rode a wave of young voters
   and independents to a smashing victory. Then, in New Hampshire, it did
   not work quite so well. Mr Obama's loss to Hillary Clinton was all the
   more painful because almost everybody (including the Clintons
   themselves) expected him to win handsomely. However this setback,
   dramatic though it is, should not be allowed to obscure his
   achievements.

   Mr Obama is a first-term senator--a man who was so unknown eight years
   ago that he could not even get a floor pass to the 2000 Democratic
   convention--who has fought the formidable Clinton machine to a draw.
   What had looked for months like Hillary's coronation will now be a
   real fight for the crown.

   But he has done more than this: he has rewritten the terms of the 2008
   race. Mr Obama was the first person to put "change" at the heart of
   his campaign. Now everybody--Republican as well as Democrat--has leapt
   on to the change bandwagon. Mrs Clinton promises "smart change". John
   Edwards promises "real change". John McCain touts his record of
   changing Washington from within. In the twinned Republican and
   Democratic debates on January 5th the presidential candidates used the
   word "change" 120 times.

   His achievements are undoubted. But how lethal is the "reality check"
   of New Hampshire? Is the magic Obama train about to hit the buffers,
   or is the candidate tough enough to keep it steaming ahead through
   what now promises to be a long hard contest?

   Mr Obama has demonstrated a unique ability to invoke passion among his
   supporters. This is partly because at his best he may be the finest
   public speaker of his generation: a man who echoes John Kennedy and
   Martin Luther King but nevertheless speaks in a voice that is all his
   own. It is not just that he says it well: it is also what he says.

   Mr Obama has three great themes--change, reconciliation and hope.
   America is broken, he argues, ruled by lobbyists and hated around the
   world. The polls show that many Americans agree (see chart and [4]full
   poll details). The way to fix this is not by fighting the partisan
   political wars even harder but by creating a national movement for
   reform that embraces independents and disillusioned Republicans. The
   force that will bring about this change is hope: the very same force
   that has brought about all the great changes in American history, from
   the emancipation of the slaves to the civil-rights movement. Or so the
   devotees say.

   Mr Obama's supporters regard him as a transforming figure. He can,
   they claim, cure America's partisan divisions with the help of the
   fact that he is a newcomer to Washington who reaches out to
   independents and Republicans (Mr Obama himself says that he is running
   for the presidency now because he did not want to stay in Congress for
   so long that "all the hope was boiled out of him"). He can repair
   America's image in the world, they believe, because he is himself a
   global citizen who spent some of his childhood in Indonesia and is the
   son of an African father and grandson of a Muslim.

   Deeper than all this is the question of race. Mr Obama never dwells on
   racial reconciliation. When he mentions emancipation and civil rights,
   it is alongside women's and workers' rights. He does not need to speak
   about black-white reconciliation because he embodies it. The largely
   white crowds who have been flocking to him over the past few
   weeks--Iowa and New Hampshire are only about 2% black--see him as a
   way of making amends for America's racist past. The gangly man on the
   stage has the power to forgive past sins and unite a house that has
   been divided.

   But the promise of "transformation" that so excited the voters in Iowa
   was clearly not enough in New Hampshire. The Clintons threw everything
   that they could at the "hope" machine. Mrs Clinton demanded a "reality
   check". What, she asked, is the point of high hopes if you do not have
   the experience to deliver them? Bill Clinton talked about "fairy
   tales". Various critics argued that a great orator can still emit
   nothing but hot air. Probably the setback was inevitable: election
   campaigns cannot be conducted in terms of pure poetry for ever.

   An end to poetry

   Mr Obama now faces two big problems. The first is that his rhetoric is
   a waning asset. Everyone now knows that he is a wonderful speaker. But
   can he produce anything but golden words? He needs to show that he can
   excel at prose as well as poetry. It is striking how many people
   turned up to his meetings in New Hampshire and came away moved but not
   converted. They admired his talent but did not think that he addressed
   their problems.

   His second trouble is that important groups of Democratic voters are
   immune to Obamamania. His message goes down fine with the
   college-educated crowd: young and liberal professionals who want to
   hear a statement about what sort of country they live in. It goes down
   less well with blue-collar workers and older people who want somebody
   who can solve meat-and-potatoes problems. For them Mr Obama is too
   young and too inexperienced: a pretty talker rather than a problem
   solver.

   Democratic primaries have traditionally been unkind to inspirational
   liberals. The likes of Eugene McCarthy and Howard Dean were carried
   forward on a wave of hope for a while before they collapsed in
   confusion.

   Yet there are a few reasons for thinking that Mr Obama may prove a
   more enduring candidate. The vote in New Hampshire was too close to
   qualify as a rejection. Voters want a proper contest in which they can
   consider their options; they do not want a coronation either of Mrs
   Clinton or of Mr Obama. And Mr Obama is a more appealing, and better
   organised, character than those "inspirational" predecessors.

   The vote for the president is the most personal vote that Americans
   cast: a vote for a person rather than a party or ideology. Mr Obama's
   personal story speaks directly to America's sense of itself as a land
   of opportunity and upward mobility. His father abandoned him when he
   was two. He was partly brought up by his grandparents. He drifted for
   a while and experimented with drugs. But then he pulled himself
   together. He was the first black president of the Harvard Law Review.
   He wrote two best-selling books. He rejected black-identity politics
   for the richer theme of multiculturalism and racial reconciliation. He
   has risen to the summit of American politics by his mid-40s without
   the help of family connections.

   Mr Obama is also the ideal anti-Bush candidate. Americans tend to look
   for a president who is different from his immediate predecessor--they
   chose Ronald Reagan after Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton after George
   Bush senior--and Mr Obama is as different from George Bush as you can
   get. For a start, he is an outsider who didn't inherit power. Mrs
   Clinton, by contrast, is half of a political dynasty that has been at
   the heart of America's partisan wars for as long as many people can
   remember.

   Mr Obama is tough. He thrived in the world of Illinois politics, one
   that is dominated by entrenched political machines that pride
   themselves on their bare-knuckle tactics. His first bid for the House
   of Representatives collapsed in disaster but four years later he was
   running for the Senate. His chief political adviser, David Axelrod, is
   one of the best in the business.

   He came out against the "dumb" war in Iraq at a time when Mr Bush's
   approval ratings were sky-high and leading Democrats such as Mrs
   Clinton and John Kerry were voting for it. In the Senate he
   concentrated on building political capital for a presidential run
   rather than on accumulating a legislative record (which frankly looks
   a little thin). He had the audacity to go ahead even though the
   establishment was telling him to wait his turn.

   Perhaps the most striking thing that he has going for him is that the
   Republicans seem more frightened of his message of "hope" than of Mrs
   Clinton's message of "experience". They are well geared up for adding
   a few more points to Mrs Clinton's already lengthy list of political
   negatives. Mr Obama is an unknown quantity. His race makes him
   difficult for the Republicans to attack, and he is better than she is
   at wooing wavering Republicans. Despite New Hampshire, the battle
   between hope and experience has only just begun.


   The latest targets for insurers

   YOUNG people are hard to pin down. They graduate from school. They
   jump between employers, or in and out of employment. They leave their
   parental home for a shared flat, a friend's couch, or a house they can
   scarcely afford. They move to New York, San Francisco, Portland, or
   even Austin.

   And so they often wander away from the comforts of health-care
   insurance. According to the Census Bureau, almost 30% of Americans
   between the ages of 18 and 34 are uninsured. For people aged 45 to 64
   the number is just 14%.

   A healthy young person seldom requires medical attention. So forgoing
   insurance is an understandable decision. But some of those who roll
   the dice lose. A serious illness or accident can be financially
   ruinous, and lead to sub-standard care.

   Having more healthy young people in the insurance pool would benefit
   insurers, because they are less likely to make big claims. But efforts
   to attract them have thus far been feeble. Various companies offer low
   monthly premiums aimed at the young. But they typically have high
   deductibles--the amount the subscriber has to pay out of his own
   pocket before insurance kicks in. So young people tend to shy away
   from them.

   One company, however, is taking an interesting new approach. In
   September Precedent Insurance--a division of the American Community
   Mutual Insurance Company--brought out a line of Coverage on Demand
   plans. The plans are currently available only in Texas, which has a
   higher percentage of uninsured people than any other state. They offer
   low premiums, low deductibles, limited benefits, and a clever twist.
   If you exhaust your benefits but need more coverage, you can pay an
   additional "activation fee" and get more, even after you get ill or
   hurt. There are four levels of cover. To get to the fourth requires at
   least a cumulative $9,000 in activation fees. But it then provides the
   subscriber with up to $5m in coverage.

   The activation fees for the higher levels are steep, but a lot better
   than bankruptcy. According to Mike Grandstaff, the company's chief
   executive officer, they only make sense if you are, in fact, in
   reasonably good health. If you are likely to need more than the first
   level of coverage, the plan is not really economical.

   Even people who plan on staying well may prefer more comprehensive
   health-care insurance. The Precedent plans do not cover, for example,
   costs associated with a normal pregnancy. This is to discourage women
   who plan on becoming pregnant shortly after signing up. But it is, of
   course, hard luck on a woman with an unplanned pregnancy. Perhaps she
   could hope that the father works for the government and is in a
   marrying mood.

   Young people have it tough. It remains easier for politicians to rally
   around the cuddly or wrinkly. This was apparent this week, as
   Democrats denounced a "cruel" George Bush for vetoing, on October 3rd,
   the reauthorisation and expansion of the State Children's Health
   Insurance Programme (SCHIP). This federal programme provides insurance
   for 6.9m children from low-income families by providing blocks of
   money to the states, which disburse it. SCHIP began in 1997 and
   expired on September 30th, although Congress has already extended it
   for six weeks while the political wrangling continues.

   A bipartisan majority in the House and Senate passed a plan that calls
   for $35 billion in additional spending on SCHIP over the next five
   years, only to see it vetoed as expected. The plan would have upped
   the number of children covered to 10m. Mr Bush opposed the scheme
   mainly on cost grounds (though Democrats say this rings false, given
   how much he is wasting on the Iraq war) and accused him of wantonly
   denying children health-care insurance. This week they plainly won the
   political advantage. But curing America's health-care system will take
   more than political point-scoring and limited fixes. It will require a
   degree of political co-operation that is not now available.


   Southern states are eager to boost trade with Cuba

   THE docks in Mobile, Alabama's only seaport, are crammed with lumber,
   steel coils, frozen chickens, coal and much else. But few of these
   products are bound for Cuba, just 550 nautical miles (1,000km) away.
   The state port authority's director, James Lyons, hopes this will
   change. "We're trading with Vietnam, we're trading with China. These
   are both communist states," he says. "It's silly to have tense
   relations with a neighbour that close."

   Mr Lyons is hardly the only Southerner who would be glad to see the
   end of America's 45-year embargo on trade with Cuba. Trade delegations
   from Alabama, Mississippi and other Gulf states have been descending
   on Cuba in recent years, hoping for a slice of a potentially lucrative
   market. Currently only agricultural products and medicines may be
   exported from America (with no Cuban imports permitted). Before 2000,
   when the embargo was loosened, nothing was allowed.

   In 2005 Alabaman companies did roughly $140m in trade with Cuba,
   according to Ron Sparks, the state's agricultural commissioner, who is
   aggressively pursuing Cuban business. "We've sold cotton, we've sold
   cookies, crackers, fruit juice, mayonnaise, mustard, salad dressing--a
   lot of processed foods," says Mr Sparks. Over half of all chickens
   exported from America to Cuba come from Alabama, along with almost all
   the (wooden) telephone poles. The owner of one Alabaman pole-making
   business, which first shipped utility poles to Cuba after Hurricane
   Charley in 2004, says that competition is fierce for the Cuban
   business, especially since a large-scale electrification project in
   Cuba has boosted demand. Helpfully, Alabama has no powerful
   pro-embargo lobby of Cuban exiles like the one in Florida.

   Volume would be higher still if the embargo were lifted. In Mobile,
   the port's trade with Cuba amounts to only a few thousand tons a
   year--a fraction of its 50m ton (45m tonne) annual average. Just one
   or two ships a week leave for Cuba, as against six or seven in the
   pre-Castro days. "There's all manner of things that could be
   exported," says Mr Lyons--roofing materials, machinery, cars, even
   paint, none of which is currently allowed. Exports from America, it is
   reckoned, could easily treble from the current $350m or so a year.

   More agricultural goods could also be shipped, but "there are a lot of
   people who just don't want to fool with all the paperwork," says Mr
   Lyons. Many extra hassles complicate trade with Cuba. Americans cannot
   travel there freely, so many businessmen attach themselves to state
   officials as part of a delegation (and still must get permits from
   Washington). Payment is also an issue. Americans cannot accept money
   from Cubans directly, so setting up a third-party payment procedure is
   necessary. The transaction must be in cash (which some Americans
   regard as a plus). Ships cannot head directly from Cuba to the United
   States, though sometimes extra paperwork can circumvent this.

   Even if the embargo were to be lifted tomorrow, Mr Lyons cautions that
   trade would not boom immediately. "They don't have the currency to buy
   what they need," he says. But trade works both ways--so how about some
   Cuban cigars and rum for America?


   Silent but deadly
   "I'm sorry, I don't talk to the press and that applies to you,
   unfortunately."

   Chelsea Clinton refuses to be interviewed by any journalists, even a
   nine-year-old reporter for Scholastic News. Associated Press, December
   31st 

   Having your cake and eating it
   "I pulled the ad. I do not want it to be run at all."

   Mike Huckabee, deciding not to run a negative ad against Mitt Romney.
   He then showed it to the media, and it has since appeared on news
   reports and the internet.

   [3]Washingtonpost.com, December 31st 

   Hedging your bets
   "I think I'm going to win. I'm not going to forecast that necessarily.
   But I think I'm going to win, and that would be enormously powerful
   for my campaign."

   Mitt Romney on his chances in Iowa. [4]CNN.com, December 31st 

   All I want
   "Take me on a vacation."

   Cindy McCain suggesting a New Year's resolution for her husband.
   CNN.com, December 31st 

   Going postal
   "John doesn't have a record in the Senate. John's only passed four
   bills. They're all about post offices. I mean, literally."

   Joe Biden on John Edwards's senatorial career. Washingtonpost.com,
   December 31st 

   Officially unofficial
   "He will not have a formal official role. But just as presidents rely
   on wives, husbands, fathers, friends of long years, he will be my
   close confidant and adviser, as I was with him."

   Hillary Clinton on her husband's possible future role. ABC News,
   December 30th 

   Geography 101
   "In light of what is happening in Pakistan it ought to give us pause
   as to why are so many illegals coming across these borders."

   Mike Huckabee on immigration. Associated Press, December 28th 

   Delicate flower
   "It was a severe headache, yeah, and everything has turned out fine.
   All the tests turned out 100%. As you can see, I'm very healthy."

   Rudy Giuliani was hospitalised in St Louis. Los Angeles Times,
   December 23rd 

   Animal lover
   "Well...these three birds all said they would not vote for me on
   caucus day. You see what happened?"

   Mike Huckabee went pheasant hunting in Iowa, shooting three birds.
   Washingtonpost.com, December 26th


   Local action against illegal immigration

   IN SEPTEMBER 2006 the city of Irving, close to Dallas, decided that it
   wanted to help fight illegal immigration. So it signed up for the
   Criminal Alien Programme (CAP). The programme, run by the Immigration
   and Customs agency, asks local law officials to give them a call if
   they suspect someone they have arrested may be an illegal immigrant.

   Irving is not the only city to have joined, but it is probably the
   most enthusiastic. Since CAP's inception, some 1,700 people from
   Irving, a city of officially about 200,000 souls, have been handed
   over for deportation. Opposition to CAP has suffered some
   public-relations setbacks. In November an activist, Carlos
   Quintanilla, was arrested after a policeman spotted him giving a
   television interview on East Irving Boulevard. He had seven
   outstanding warrants. But such moments aside, the programme's
   opponents are right to be concerned about it. They argue that it
   encourages racial profiling, is too punitive and harms families. No
   reliable measure exists of how many people have left the city out of
   fear or frustration, but the local school district says it has lost
   hundreds of students this year.

   Objecting from the other side are people who say that Irving policemen
   should not be asked to shoulder a federal task. In November the
   federal government asked north Texas officials to stop detaining
   people over traffic violations and certain misdemeanours, such as
   bouncing a cheque. There were too many referrals, they said, and not
   enough resources to look at them all.

   So the programme has its problems. And Irving is just one of several
   places in the Dallas-Fort Worth area to struggle with its response to
   illegal immigration. City commissioners in Collin County recently
   announced that non-profit clinics will not receive county money if
   they treat illegal immigrants. In May the suburb of Farmers Branch
   approved an ordinance that would require landlords to verify the legal
   status of prospective tenants. Landlords are contesting the ban,
   saying that it puts an undue burden on them, and lawsuits have
   prevented it from taking effect.

   Understandably, people who are frustrated by federal inaction on
   immigration may turn to local initiatives. But no one benefits when
   these are poorly conceived and arbitrarily applied.


   The push for universal health care at last hits Congress

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

   "WE'RE right at the cusp of an ideological truce on health care,"
   declares a beaming Ron Wyden. The Democratic senator has reason to be
   pleased. A version of his Healthy Americans Act, an ambitious
   health-reform bill aimed at universal coverage that he has already
   introduced into the Senate, was due to go to the House this week. At
   that point, his bill will become the first bipartisan, bicameral
   congressional effort in over a decade to tackle the issue of extending
   health care to the country's growing legion of uninsured.

   Hillary Clinton's effort was the previous one: a disastrous attempt to
   promote a government-run health scheme at the start of her husband's
   first administration. That plan backfired, in part because the vast
   majority of Americans in 1993 had decent health-insurance plans
   through their employers and feared ending up worse off.

   Today, though, Americans are increasingly unhappy with the health
   system. Congressman Brian Baird, a co-sponsor of the House version of
   the universal-care bill, argues that many millions have lost their
   employer-provided insurance since the failure of the Clinton plan and
   even more fear they might. Such widespread insecurity has breathed new
   life into reform.

   Both versions of the bill require individuals to buy their insurance,
   and include insurance-market reform and subsidies to make sure that
   all Americans can do so. They also end the current tax break for
   health insurance provided by employers, which should break the link
   between insurance and employment by making coverage portable.

   That appeals to businesses, which, like individuals, are feeling
   increasingly insecure as the cost of employee health benefits
   continues to soar well above the rate of inflation. Wal-Mart,
   America's biggest retailer, has been loudly pushing for universal
   coverage, and the current bipartisan efforts in Congress have won
   praise from General Mills, a big cereal manufacturer, Aetna, an
   insurance giant, and other firms.

   The best reason to think that top-down reform might work comes,
   ironically, from bottom-up efforts. A number of states are now
   experimenting with health reform. Massachusetts already has a plan up
   and running that involves an individual requirement to buy coverage,
   subsidies for the poorest and a state-supervised insurance exchange.
   California's legislature is even now haggling with Governor Arnold
   Schwarzenegger over his plan for coverage, which adds an employer tax
   on top of the Massachusetts model (the Golden State has far more
   uninsured who need subsidies). This battle is expected to come to a
   head in September.

   With such activity at state level, some conservatives think Congress
   should do nothing. Mr Wyden strongly disagrees. He observes that even
   the most ingenious state cannot fix several of the central problems,
   including the Medicare scheme for the elderly and the federal tax
   break for employer-provided health insurance, which has encouraged
   profligacy.

   Federal efforts still face a formidable obstacle: the partisan
   slanging of the presidential election cycle. Congress and the White
   House even traded barbs this week over the State Children's Health
   Insurance Programme (SCHIP), a popular scheme that subsidises coverage
   for children. The Senate Finance Committee floated a plan to renew and
   expand SCHIP using money raised from new tobacco taxes. It had
   bipartisan support, yet the White House, playing to right-wing fears
   of creeping government expansion, threatened this week to veto the
   effort.

   Mr Wyden thinks this is just posturing. Soon, he believes, Congress
   will reach a compromise on the popular SCHIP programme, and then move
   on to real health reform. Perhaps he is right, for already in this
   campaign health care is the top domestic policy issue. John Edwards
   has proposed his universal-coverage plan, and Mitt Romney, a
   Republican ex-governor of Massachusetts, will make much of that
   state's health reforms if he wins his party's nomination.
   Perhaps--though don't hold your breath--the moment has indeed come for
   an ideological truce.


   But whose fault is that? 

   THE Democrats took control of Congress nearly a year ago with schemes
   to pump cash into domestic programmes, from low-income housing to
   cancer research. It hasn't quite gone according to plan. George Bush
   has waved his veto pen at the Democrats' recent budget proposals,
   accepting only a fat defence-spending bill. The result has been a
   stalemate, with the Democrats struggling to come up with a budget that
   will get past the president's desk, with only a week left before the
   Christmas recess in which to finish the job.

   Indeed, frustrated ambition has marked the Democrats' majority reign
   so far. In the summer they failed to make Mr Bush accept a deadline
   for withdrawing troops from Iraq. In October the president stopped
   them expanding a popular children's health-care programme. The Senate
   has just voted to waive its "pay-as-you-go" rule, which requires tax
   cuts to be offset by other revenue, thanks to filibustering by the
   Republican contingent. The federal budget is months overdue, and it
   appears that the Democrats will have to give in to many of Mr Bush's
   spending demands, even at the expense of the domestic programmes they
   wanted to augment. Will voters punish the Democrats at the 2008
   election for Congress's disappointing year, or will they whack the
   Republicans for their obstructionism?

   As far as the budget goes, the Republican minority clearly hopes the
   blame will rebound on the Democrats. Mr Bush has suddenly and
   conveniently adopted the language of fiscal restraint. He has argued
   that the Democrats' budget plan, which called for a small increase in
   domestic spending, was excessive and wasteful. He has doggedly stuck
   to his own budget outline, which calls for $23 billion less domestic
   expenditure than Congress's first plan, even as the Democrats have
   offered to meet him somewhere in between. (The Democrats' first
   proposed discretionary budget came to $956 billion, next to which the
   $23 billion that is causing the problem looks pretty small.)
   Meanwhile, the president's defence request is a 10% increase on last
   year's at $481 billion--and that excludes $196 billion for the
   campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan.

   Republicans also may be holding the budget hostage in order to force
   the majority to authorise unfettered Iraq funding, which would rile
   the Democratic base. Still, the president has shown that he can
   extract his Iraq money from the Democratic Congress regardless by
   exploiting his veto and Democrats' unwillingness to block all funding
   while American soldiers are in the field. The Republicans can probably
   secure their war money without giving much on domestic spending.

   Now that Mr Bush has discovered the power of the veto pen, he sees
   little incentive to keep it in the inkwell. Those who still support
   him will only be heartened by his defiance, and legislative gridlock
   makes the Democrats seem incompetent. The Democrats have not helped
   themselves with their time-wasting on Iraq. But Mr Bush's tactics may
   hurt Republicans in tight races, particularly if the cuts to social
   services he envisions hit Americans as hard as some predict.

   The Democrats, meanwhile, complain that their slim majority (51-49) in
   the Senate has prevented them from passing ambitious legislation.
   Senate procedures, with all their talk of cloture and filibusters, are
   arcane; but if the Democrats can claim that the Republicans pressed
   for cuts to health care for children or winter heating assistance for
   the elderly, the message might resonate. Americans still tend to trust
   Democrats more than Republicans on domestic policy; with elections
   coming, now may not be the time for Republicans to rediscover their
   hard edges.


   Attention shifts to two states that are unused to it

   THE West usually comes late to the primary season, by which point the
   excitement is over. This year it is crashing the party. Of the
   region's 11 states, seven will select their Republican and Democratic
   candidates by February 5th. This week prospective nominees turned
   their attention to two states that are unaccustomed to it. One is
   Nevada, which will hold caucuses on January 19th. The other is
   California, the greatest prize in the race. Although polling booths in
   California do not open until February 5th, half of the votes there are
   expected to be sent in early by post. The first ballots landed on
   doormats this week.

   In 2004 fewer than 10,000 people turned up to the Democratic caucuses
   in Nevada. The American media have largely overlooked the state, as
   have the Republicans. They are more focused on South Carolina, which
   will pick a Republican candidate on the same day. But the Democrats
   see Nevada as a gateway to the West and a crucial source of momentum.
   Barack Obama dropped two references to the state into his concession
   speech in New Hampshire.

   Until recently Nevada seemed to be in the bag for Hillary Clinton, who
   led in polls and had picked up endorsements from prominent Democrats.
   But this week Nevada's two most powerful unions threw their weight
   behind Mr Obama. The Culinary Workers Union has some 60,000 members,
   most of whom work in casinos, where, handily, some of the caucuses
   will be held. The Service Employees International Union is smaller but
   can draw organisers from neighbouring California. Since turnout is
   expected to be fairly low, the outcome of the caucuses is likely to
   turn on a contest between two get-out-the-vote operations--the unions'
   versus the Democratic establishment's.

   In Iowa and New Hampshire Mr Obama did especially well among
   independent voters, well-off urbanites and the young. The first group
   is much prized game in the West. Democratic officials in California
   and Nevada have made it easy for independents to vote in their
   contests. The Republicans have not, so independents are forced into
   the Democratic race.

   Mr Obama will need their support, because he faces a big disadvantage.
   California and Nevada are heavily Hispanic--in California there are as
   many Latinos aged 18 to 29 as whites and blacks put together. Not all
   can vote, and relatively few of those who can, will. But those who do
   are likely to support Mrs Clinton. California's leading Latino
   politicians have rallied to her, and polls put her lead among Hispanic
   voters somewhere between strong and overwhelming. Bill Richardson
   dropped out of the race on January 9th, so now there is no actual
   Hispanic to vote for.

   Some of this has to do with the fact that many Latinos are
   working-class and thus attracted to Mrs Clinton's talk of economic
   problem-solving. But Mr Obama's race matters too. California's Latinos
   are frequently pitted against blacks in the zero-sum game of urban
   politics, which generates broader resentments.

   Postal voters are Mrs Clinton's other strength. They are older than
   average, and she has done well among the old so far. They are
   enthusiastic: more than three-quarters returned their ballots in the
   2006 mid-term elections. Like Rudy Giuliani, the Republican candidate
   with the strongest California operation, she will target them
   relentlessly. Both hope to win the big race before it has begun.




   The Republican Party is in a mess. The answer is surprisingly simple

   BACK in July 2007, John Heilemann, a writer for New York magazine and
   an alumnus of this newspaper, argued that it was possible to imagine
   John McCain winning the Republican nomination--but only if you had
   been fortified by "half a bottle of Maker's Mark, followed by a
   nitrous-oxide chaser". Mr McCain is now back. But a bigger question
   remains. Do you need to partake of Mr Heilemann's chemical cocktail to
   believe that the Republican nomination is worth having?

   The Republicans look like dead men walking. Almost two-thirds of
   Americans regard the Iraq war as a mistake. A similar proportion think
   that the country is on the wrong track. Americans regard the Democrats
   as more competent than Republicans by a margin of five to three and
   more ethical by a margin of two to one. They prefer Democratic
   policies on everything from health care to taxes.

   These figures have come to life in Iowa and New Hampshire. Twice as
   many Democrats turned out to caucus in Iowa as Republicans. The
   Democrats are fired up with Bush-hatred and ready to take the White
   House. The Republicans are despondent and defensive. "I'd rather vote
   for a dead dog than a Democrat", one New Hampshirite told this
   columnist. "But the way things are going it might have to be the dead
   dog."

   The party has flailed around for a champion without success. Rudy
   Giuliani led the national polls for months only to implode. Fred
   Thompson sped to the front for a while only to fall asleep at the
   wheel. The party is divided into warring factions. Mitt Romney and
   Mike Huckabee have as much in common as their respective alma
   maters--Harvard Business School and Ouachita Baptist University. The
   party is also in danger of going off the deep end. Mr Huckabee denies
   that man is descended from the apes. Everyone except Mr McCain seems
   to think that it's a good plan to send 12m illegal immigrants back
   home.

   The party's travails are producing a fierce argument on the right. Are
   the Republicans' problems just part of the normal political cycle? Or
   do they portend the end of an era? The pragmatists argue that the
   problems are just a matter of competence and happenstance. The war in
   Iraq was badly managed until Bob Gates and General David Petraeus took
   over. The White House's response to Hurricane Katrina was dismal. The
   Republican majority in Congress fell victim to the normal foibles of
   greed and lust. Voters always grow tired of incumbents.

   The fundamentalists think that there is something much deeper going
   on. Ed Rollins, a former Reagan aide who is now Mr Huckabee's campaign
   chairman, argues that the machine that Ronald Reagan built is now
   finished. The coalition of social conservatives, defence conservatives
   and anti-tax conservatives "doesn't mean a whole lot to people
   anymore". Mr Huckabee is openly critical of George Bush's foreign
   policy.

   The truth is more nuanced. There is more than happenstance at work,
   but less than the break-up of the Republican coalition. Mr Bush's
   people pursued a self-defeating political strategy. They fired up the
   Republican base, ignoring the centre and rewarding their loyalists
   with government largesse. But Mr Bush's serial incompetence destroyed
   his narrow majority. And his addiction to government spending
   alienated fiscal conservatives.

   Mr Bush's Republicans also made serious policy errors. They stuck
   their head in the sand over global warming. They ignored rising
   anxiety about stagnating middle-class incomes. They turned the war on
   terrorism into a defining issue and then messed it up. Mr Reagan had a
   lasting influence not just because he forged a coalition but also
   because he was right on the biggest issues of his time--the importance
   of shrinking government and facing down communism. The Republicans are
   now in danger of being either wrong or half wrong on two of the
   defining issues of our time--global warming and radical Islam.

   This suggests that the Republicans need to engage in some vigorous
   rethinking, and fast. But it does not add up to a case for taking a
   jack-hammer to the Reagan coalition. The coalition has served the
   Republicans handsomely in the past--they will have held the White
   House for 20 of the past 28 years and controlled the House for 12
   years from 1995. Jackhammering the coalition would almost certainly be
   a disaster. Do the Republicans really want to abandon a chunk of their
   core voters when they are already behind in the polls? And do they
   want to engage in a civil war in the middle of a tight election?

   The value of values

   Business conservatives can never win a majority without the support of
   "values voters" (there just are not enough people around who look like
   Mr Romney). "Values voters" can never produce a viable governing
   coalition without the help of the business elite. The Republicans have
   seen revolts against their ruling coalition before--remember Pat
   Buchanan's pitchfork rebellion against George Bush senior--and they
   have always succeeded in putting it back together again. They need to
   do the same now. Enough Republicans believe enough of the Reagan
   mantra--less government, traditional values and strong defence--to
   make it a workable philosophy.

   The doomsters draw the wrong lesson from the Bush years. The lesson of
   the Bush presidency is not that the Republican coalition is exhausted
   but that it has been badly managed. Mr Bush has failed to keep the
   coalition in balance--he tilted too far towards his party's moralistic
   southern wing and too far away from its libertarian western wing. He
   has allowed public spending to balloon and pork-barrel politicians to
   run wild. And he has ignored big changes in public opinion about
   climate change. The Republican Party certainly needs to update its
   agenda to deal with problems Reagan never grappled with. But this is
   no time to go breaking the mould and starting again.


   The Supreme Court calls a retreat in the drug wars 

   SINCE 1970, when the Controlled Substances Act was enacted, the number
   of people arrested for drug offences has risen from 416,000 to
   1,890,000 a year. Prisons are bursting at the seams: California's are
   at 191% of their official capacity. And drugs are both cheaper and
   more plentiful. Reversing this unlucky campaign will be no easier than
   staging a tidy withdrawal from Iraq. Yet this week judges took an
   important step in that direction.

   On December 10th the Supreme Court issued lenient rulings in two drug
   cases. The first was that of a small-time crack-cocaine dealer,
   Derrick Kimbrough, who had been sentenced to 15 years in prison.
   Although hardly a slap on the wrist, that was between four and
   seven-and-a-half years less than national sentencing guidelines
   dictated. The other case concerned Brian Gall, an otherwise upstanding
   fellow who had briefly traded ecstasy while a student at university.
   He, too, received a sentence more lenient than the guidelines
   suggested. Higher courts objected; but, by a seven-to-two margin in
   both cases, the judges upheld the milder sentences.

   If that was a tactical retreat in the war on drugs, the following day
   brought a headlong flight. The sentencing commission, which sets the
   guidelines that judges are supposed to follow, voted to reduce
   retroactively sentences for crack-dealing. Some 2,500 convicts will be
   let out next year, and almost 20,000 will be able to apply for shorter
   sentences.

   The Supreme Court cases turned on the issue of whether judicial
   discretion is more important than consistency in sentencing. But other
   issues intruded. The guidelines, which were laid down in 1986, were
   supposed to make punishment more predictable. Yet they also opened a
   racially tinged rift between sentences for trafficking different types
   of cocaine. When weighing a dealer's offence, judges have been
   expected to treat a gram of crack as equivalent to 100 grams (3.5
   ounces) of powder. The effect has been to stuff the prisons with
   blacks, who are two-and-a-half times as likely as whites to smoke
   crack.

   The judges' rulings do not mean an end to harsh sentencing. They allow
   more leeway rather than enforcing leniency, and do not apply directly
   to the state courts where most drug cases are heard. Yet they set a
   more moderate tone--a welcome contrast to the viciousness that has
   characterised the drug wars so far.


   The Republican battle for the religious vote gets rough 

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

                      Presidential, but under pressure


   A HANDFUL of protesters stood outside George Bush senior's
   presidential library. One handed out anti-Mormon pamphlets; another
   held up a pair of flip-flops. Inside, Mitt Romney gave a long-awaited
   speech, hoping to reassure religious Republicans that they can safely
   vote for a Mormon.

   He sorely needed to strike the right note. Many Republican primary
   voters, especially evangelical Christians, distrust his faith. In
   recent weeks, Mr Romney has lost his poll lead in Iowa and South
   Carolina to Mike Huckabee, a former governor of Arkansas and, more
   important, a charismatic, guitar-playing Baptist preacher.

   In his speech on December 6th, Mr Romney used the word "Mormon" only
   once. He mentioned only the Mormon beliefs which other Christians
   share, such as that Jesus is the son of God. Rather than getting
   entangled in theology, he made three broad points.

   If elected, he said, he would "serve no one religion, no one group, no
   one cause and no one interest". Echoing John Kennedy's promise in 1960
   not to take orders from the pope, he said that neither his church nor
   any other would tell him what to do.

   But whereas Kennedy said he believed in the "absolute" separation of
   church and state, Mr Romney qualified that a little. The founders
   barred the establishment of a state religion, he said, but "they did
   not countenance the elimination of religion from the public square."
   This was a sop to Christians who fret that militant secularists have
   gone too far in banning, for example, voluntary prayer in public
   schools.

   Mr Romney argued that a president's specific denomination is
   unimportant, so long as he has one. He embraced "our nation's symphony
   of faith", praising the profundity of Catholic ceremony, the ancient
   traditions of the Jews and the commitment to frequent prayer of the
   Muslims. He contrasted America's tradition of lively religious liberty
   with the deadening effect of state sponsorship in Europe. "I have
   visited many of the magnificent cathedrals in Europe. They are so
   inspired...so grand...so empty." And he promised to stand up to the
   other extreme, the theocratic tyranny of violent jihad.

   There was something for everyone in the speech, except atheists.
   Jacques Berlinerblau, the author of "Thumpin' It: The Use and Abuse of
   the Bible in Today's Presidential Politics", reckons that unbelieving
   Americans will feel excluded by lines such as "Freedom requires
   religion just as religion requires freedom." Pressed, Mr Romney admits
   he has no problem with atheists. But many of the conservative voters
   he is trying to woo do.

   And thanks to those voters Mr Huckabee's surge continues. Many
   evangelicals plainly feel more comfortable backing one of their own.
   Mr Huckabee himself stresses that no one should hold Mr Romney's
   religion against him. Perish the thought. But he bills himself as a
   Christian candidate, ignores the question when asked if Mr Romney is
   Christian too, and asks questions like: "Don't Mormons believe that
   Jesus and the devil are brothers?" (The Mormon church says this is a
   question often asked by those who wish to denigrate Mormonism; it
   refers to the Mormon belief that God is the father of all.)

   Mr Romney cannot plausibly hope that evangelicals will like him better
   than Mr Huckabee. But he might persuade them that Mr Huckabee is
   unelectable nationally. Free-market types gasp at the Arkansan's
   protectionist rhetoric. Deficit hawks shudder at his plan to abolish
   income tax. And Democrats salivate at the prospect of fighting a man
   who, however amiable, does not believe in evolution and was still
   arguing in the early 1990s that people with AIDS should be isolated.
   Evangelicals may love a hollering Southern preacher; swing voters are
   not so sure.

   Mr Romney launched his first television spot attacking Mr Huckabee in
   Iowa this week, accusing him of being soft on illegal immigration. In
   fact, both men, while governors, took a moderate and humane approach
   to illegals. But that is not what the conservative caucus-goers want
   to hear. It is shaping up to be a dirty, messy campaign.


   Politicians want to give the economy a boost. They're likely to make a
   hash of it

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                                       Mr Bush has a plan

   JUST occasionally, Washington's creaky political machine can whir into
   rapid action. Something of the sort is happening in the debate about
   fiscal stimulus. A month ago, a few academics were calling on Congress
   to spur the weakening economy with tax cuts or higher spending. Now,
   after a run of statistics suggest the economy has stalled, politicians
   of all stripes have jumped on the bandwagon.

   The White House wants to announce a stimulus package in George Bush's
   state-of-the-union address of January 28th. Nancy Pelosi, the speaker
   of the House of Representatives, wants the details hashed out before
   then. With neither party keen to face voters in the midst of a
   recession, legislation now seems quite possible. Less obvious is
   whether it will make any sense.

   Most economists agree on the characteristics of sensible fiscal
   stimulus: the measures should conform to three "T"s: timely,
   well-targeted and temporary. Take too long, and the recession could be
   over before stimulus is agreed. Target the money on people most likely
   to spend it and you get the most demand-boosting bang for the buck.
   Don't let the measures permanently worsen the government's budget
   position. Consensus is even emerging on the appropriate size of any
   boost: somewhere around $100 billion, a bit less than 1% of GDP. That
   could provide the economy with a significant short-term jolt.
   Calculations by Douglas Elmendorf of the Brookings Institution suggest
   that a temporary tax rebate worth $100 billion could boost the
   annualised rate of GDP growth by between 0.8 and 3 percentage points
   in the quarter in which it was enacted.

   Unfortunately, even the wonks do not agree on what measures best fit
   these criteria. At a Brookings Institution forum on January 10th,
   Martin Feldstein, a Harvard professor and leading Republican
   economist, argued for an income tax rebate and opposed extending
   unemployment insurance. Mark Zandi, head of [3]Moody's Economy.com,
   favoured more help for the jobless and a payroll tax holiday.
   Think-tanks have piled in too. The Economic Policy Institute wants
   job-generating infrastructure improvements. The Centre on Budget and
   Policy Priorities wants more help for struggling state governments.

   So far, the only politicians to weigh in with detailed plans are
   people who cannot enact them this year: presidential candidates. Some
   are reasonably sensible. Barack Obama, for instance, wants everyone to
   get a $250 tax cut, which would double if economic indicators continue
   to worsen. Others look more like a fiscal Christmas tree. Hillary
   Clinton wants a $70 billion package: $30 billion in housing
   assistance, $25 billion in home-energy subsidies, $10 billion on
   expanding payments to the unemployed and $5 billion for environmental
   projects. The Republican presidential candidates want to make Mr
   Bush's tax cuts permanent--an odd priority just now since they don't
   expire until 2010.

   Early indications suggest that both the White House and congressional
   leaders are eschewing such a fiscal free-for-all. The speculation is
   that Mr Bush will push for tax breaks for businesses and a tax rebate
   for individuals, but will not insist on extending his tax cuts. Top
   Democrats in Congress are also keen on a tax rebate, but they want to
   make sure it helps poorer consumers, perhaps by making it refundable
   for those who do not pay income tax. They also want more government
   spending, perhaps by extending unemployment insurance or by giving
   more money to the states.

   Barney Frank, an influential Democrat on economic issues, says that
   stimulus must pass before the end of February. But the coming
   negotiations could become a nightmare. In the Senate, 60 votes out of
   100 are needed to guarantee passage. Republicans may demand an
   extension to the Bush tax cuts. Individual senators are likely to add
   their pet projects and priorities. Gridlock could easily delay any
   compromise package past the point at which it would do the economy any
   good. The three "T"s may have become Washington's new mantra. But the
   odds of politicians delivering are still slim.


   The Mayor doth protest too much
   "Miss, no matter how many times you ask the question, I'm not a
   candidate. That's the answer. I can't go into nitpicking. This is
   ridiculous."

   Michael Bloomberg, Mayor of New York, gets snappy with reporters.
   [3]CNN.com, January 14th

   Civil union
   "Hillary, marry me, baby."

   Senator Hillary Clinton has some very enthusiastic supporters in Los
   Angeles. [4]CNN.com, January 11th

   Street cred
   "I had an old, beat-up car, had a little, tiny beat-up apartment. I
   was wearing raggedy, beat-up clothes. I got holes in the shoes, had
   holes in my car. You all've been there. You know what I'm talking
   about."

   Barack Obama talks up his working class credentials, discussing his
   years as a community organiser in Chicago, January 11th

   Only human
   "Sweat a bit."

   Jack Welch advises Mitt Romney on how to make himself less perfect.
   MSNBC, January 14th 

   Take a break
   "He took one day off, then got right back to work being the governor
   of New Mexico. He's a glutton for punishment."

   Tom Reynolds, campaign spokesman for Bill Richardson who dropped out
   of the presidential race on January 10th. Washington Post, January
   14th 

   Play hard
   "Get rough, Fred, get rough."

   A South Carolinian voter who would like to see Fred Thompson more
   engaged. Washington Times, January 14th 

   Lucky charms
   "Some of our superstitions are a day old, some are many years old."

   John McCain, hoping to win in Michigan, carried a lucky penny and was
   wearing the same sweater he wore when he won in New Hampshire.
   [5]ABCNews.com, January 15th 

   Scary monsters
   "He's not the happiest boy today. I think he must be a Romney voter.
   Look at him. He's so sad."

   Mike Huckabee tries to comfort a crying toddler in Michigan.
   Associated Press, January 15th


   A shortage of hops threatens Christmas

   JUST as the festive season gets going, drinkers in America are finding
   their favourite beer suddenly more expensive or even--horrors!--not
   available at all. Hit by price increases and shortages, many
   breweries, particularly the small "craft brewers" and the even smaller
   microbreweries, are being forced to raise prices, make do with
   modified recipes or shut off the spigots altogether.

   The humble hop, the plant that gives beer its distinctive flavour, is
   the main problem. Many farmers in the Pacific north-west, where
   America's hop production is concentrated, have turned to more
   profitable lines--especially corn, which can be made into ethanol. The
   decrease in hop production, put at some 50% over the past decade, has
   sent prices through the roof. Brian Owens, the brewmaster of the
   O'Fallon Brewery near St Louis, Missouri, says that the variety he
   once bought for $3 a pound (0.45kg) now costs five times that. Many
   smaller breweries cannot find what they need at any price. Industry
   giants like Anheuser-Busch and Miller are better off, thanks to
   long-term contracts. But even Anheuser-Busch has been forced to raise
   prices for its six-packs.

   Without their supply of hops, some smaller producers are going out of
   business, bringing to a halt the fastest-growing segment of the
   industry. Other craft brewers and brewpubs are experimenting with new
   recipes, hoping their customers will adapt.

   The hops shortage is only part of the problem. Things are no better
   for barley, used to make the malt that yeast turns into alcohol. It
   too has been ploughed under in favour of corn. Crop failures in
   Australia and Europe, combined with the weak dollar, have made it
   harder to replace the shortage with imports. Other price increases, of
   fuel, glass and metal, add to the pressure. Not such a merry
   Christmas.


   The Republican Party is among the war's victims

                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images


   FOUR years ago, as American troops rolled across Iraq, the Republican
   Party was on a roll too. Republicans not only controlled the whole of
   Washington (seven of the nine Supreme Court justices had been
   appointed by Republican presidents). They controlled the majority of
   governorships as well--including those of mega-states such as Florida
   and New York--and they were winning the war of ideas, thanks to a
   division of conservative think-tanks.

   Republican strategists were consumed by heady visions of power without
   end. The "war on terror", which was dividing the Democrats, was
   encouraging Republican factions to bury their differences. Karl Rove,
   George Bush's chief strategist, liked to compare his boss to William
   McKinley, the late-19th-century president who had ushered in an age of
   Republican dominance. Grover Norquist, an anti-tax crusader, dubbed Mr
   Bush "Reagan's son".

   For a moment the 2004 election seemed to justify this vision, with an
   improved Republican performance among blacks, Hispanics and,
   particularly, women. But by 2007 the Democrats were back in control of
   both chambers of Congress and itching to retake the White House. Fully
   40% of Republicans believe that the Democrats will capture the
   presidency in 2008, compared with 12% of Democrats who think the
   Republicans will hang on to it. Ken Mehlman, the party chairman who
   oversaw the 2004 triumph, is now advising hedge funds on how to deal
   with a Democratic-leaning world. The Republicans may well be left with
   nothing except the solid South and a few patches of the Midwest, just
   as the Democrats were at the end of the 19th century.

   There are plenty of reasons for the party's agonies. The Republicans
   fell victim to all the diseases of incumbency--from spending like
   drunken sailors to corruption to cronyism--and the Bush administration
   made a hash of responding to Hurricane Katrina. But the Iraq war lies
   at the heart of the party's problems. The war has deprived Mr Bush of
   the oxygen of popularity. A recent CBS News/New York Times poll found
   that only 39% of Americans now think that invading Iraq was the right
   thing to do, compared with 55% who think it was a mistake. It has also
   provided the Democrats with a huge stick with which to beat the
   opposition.

   Far from uniting Republicans, the war is beginning to divide them. It
   is true that solid majorities of Republicans continue to believe that
   embarking on the war was the right decision (76%) and that America
   should stay until the job is done (71%). It is also true that the
   Democrats remain divided on the subject. But the wedge that Mr Bush
   fashioned in 2004 is now being driven into his own coalition, with
   sections of the conservative intelligentsia in full-scale revolt.

   Stephen Bainbridge, a conservative academic at the University of
   California, Los Angeles, has argued that Mr Bush's decision to go to
   war has "pissed away the conservative moment by pursuing a war of
   choice via policies that border on the criminally incompetent."
   William Buckley, the pope of the conservative movement, says that if
   Mr Bush were the leader of a parliamentary system, "it would be
   expected that he would retire or resign". Richard Viguerie, another
   conservative veteran, says that "I've never seen conservatives so
   downright fed-up as they are today."

   The war has eviscerated the administration's reputation for
   competence--and with it the idea that the Republicans have an inherent
   advantage as the "Daddy" party. An administration that once boasted
   about its clutch of CEOs will forever be remembered for phrases such
   as "slam dunk" (of WMD intelligence) and "Mission Accomplished", or
   for disasters such as the failure to prepare Walter Reed and other
   military hospitals to deal with casualties. The same CBS News/New York
   Times poll found that only 28% of people approved of Mr Bush's
   handling of the situation in Iraq.

   And that is hardly the limit of the damage. A CNN/ORC poll found that
   54% of people thought that the administration had deliberately misled
   the American people about whether Iraq had WMD. An ABC News/Washington
   Post poll in February found that 63% of respondents did not trust the
   Bush administration to report honestly about possible threats from
   other countries. The Democratic Party will use its majority status
   over the next couple of years to deepen the public's unease about the
   administration's conduct of the war. As a result, an "R" by a
   candidate's name could be even more of a scarlet letter in 2008 than
   it was in 2006.

   Mr Bush's mishandling of the war has damaged the Republican Party's
   two biggest advantages over the Democrats--its reputation for skilful
   foreign policy and for the unapologetic use of force. The likes of
   Richard Nixon, Henry Kissinger, George Bush senior and Brent Scowcroft
   clearly identified the Republicans with mastery of foreign policy.
   (Bob Woodward asked Mr Bush whether he had consulted his father before
   invading Iraq. The son replied that he had consulted a "higher
   father".) By contrast, the peace wing of the Democratic Party clearly
   linked the Democrats with being soft on defence.

   But the Iraq war has destroyed the Republicans' advantage of decades.
   The party is losing support even among the once solid armed services.
   Today only 46% of servicemen describe themselves as Republican,
   compared with 60% in 2004--and only 35% of them approve of the
   handling of the war. Voters are now much more willing to listen to the
   Democrats on war and peace. Barack Obama's statement in 2002--"I'm not
   opposed to all wars. I'm opposed to dumb wars"--is a perfect refrain
   for a resurgent party.

   The Iraq war has also eroded the Republicans' advantage in the "war on
   terror", not least because of Mr Bush's success in tying the two
   subjects together in the 2004 campaign. Many Republicans thought that
   the war on terror might have the same effect as the cold war,
   consolidating their party's hold on the executive branch (Democratic
   presidents had to wait until the end of the cold war to win two terms
   in the White House). But that now seems unlikely. The Republican
   Party's gigantic advantage in this area after September 11th has all
   but vanished. The same February ABC News/Washington Post poll found
   that 52% of respondents trusted the Democrats in Congress to do a
   better job of handling America's campaign against terrorism than Mr
   Bush.

   At the same time, the war has taken a huge toll on the
   administration's domestic policies. After the 2004 election Mr Bush
   sketched out an ambitious agenda for avoiding the fate of previous
   second-term presidents and moving the country in a more Republican
   direction: reforming immigration and Social Security, simplifying
   taxes and lifting regulations. That agenda has come to almost nothing.
   Senior figures have been constantly distracted by dealing with the
   fallout from Iraq. (One reason the administration was so tardy in
   dealing with Katrina was that Karl Rove was worried he might become a
   victim of the Plame affair.) In late 2005 the administration concluded
   that it was impossible to push through big initiatives, such as Social
   Security reform, in a time of war.

   The man who will pay the biggest political price for Iraq will
   ultimately be Mr Bush. It is hardly surprising that liberal historians
   debate whether he is the worst president ever. But now conservatives
   are beginning to play the same game. A recent poll of hard-core
   conservative activists found that only 3% described themselves as
   George Bush Republicans, compared with 79% who regarded themselves as
   Ronald Reagan Republicans. But the damage will not be limited to the
   party leader. For years to come, the Republicans will be paying a
   collective price for the "stuff" that happened in Iraq.


   Americans are in a funk. They should cheer up a bit



   "DUMB and Dumber", one of the modern classics of American comedy,
   tells the story of an affable idiot, Lloyd Christmas, who falls in
   love with a classy beauty, Mary Swanson. In one scene he asks her the
   chances of "a guy like you and a girl like me" ending up together. The
   answer is "Not good". "Not good like one out of a hundred?" asks
   Lloyd. "More like one out of a million," Mary replies. Lloyd pauses
   for a moment, then shoots back, "So you're telling me there's a
   chance?"

   That is the American spirit. Americans have traditionally been much
   more optimistic than Europeans, and happier too. They believe that
   people determine their own destinies rather than being the mere
   playthings of fate. They also believe that their children will have a
   better life than they do.

   This helps to explain the dynamism of the American economy. Americans
   regard failure--even bankruptcy--as a stone in the road rather than a
   damning verdict. It also helps to explain the appeal of the American
   experiment. "The American, by nature, is optimistic," JFK once said.
   "He is experimental, an inventor and a builder who builds best when
   called upon to build greatly." Europeans ask, "Why?" Americans ask,
   "Why not?"

   But the past five years have produced a dramatic souring in the
   country's mood. Three-quarters of Americans now think that the country
   is "on the wrong track". The number of people who are hostile to trade
   and immigration has risen sharply, as has the number who think that
   America should engage less in world affairs. Trust in government is
   half what it was in 2001. Both the president and Congress have
   bargain-basement approval ratings. And people are increasingly
   pessimistic about the future. Barely a third thinks that their
   children will be better off than they themselves are. The reason why
   the man with the message of hope, Barack Obama, and the man who hails
   from Hope, Mike Huckabee, are doing so well is that people think hope
   is in short supply.

   There are good reasons for this pessimism. People are tired of the
   Bush administration, with its partisanship and incompetence. The Iraq
   war has shattered America's image of itself as a mighty but
   good-hearted giant. Iraq means chaos and Abu Ghraib rather than the
   triumphant export of democracy. The war may be going better of late,
   but the majority of Americans still think that it was not worth the
   fighting, and the bad news about the economy is burying the good news
   about the "surge". Americans are accustomed to thinking of their
   houses as pots of gold (and pots of gold that can be remortgaged when
   you need a bit of extra cash). The gold is now turning into lead.

   This is creating a bull market in pessimism. The likes of Bill
   O'Reilly and Lou Dobbs have transformed themselves into cable stars by
   ranting about cultural decay and "broken borders". Patrick Buchanan's
   latest book is called "Day of Reckoning: How Hubris, Ideology and
   Greed are Tearing America Apart". "We are on a path to national
   suicide," he says. America is not just "coming apart", but also
   "decomposing".

   There is certainly no shortage of bad news. But coming apart?
   Decomposing? The current issue of Commentary--a magazine hardly noted
   for its sunny disposition--contains an excellent article, "Crime,
   Drugs, Welfare and Other Good News" by Peter Wehner (a former senior
   White House aide) and Yuval Levin, which shows why Mr Buchanan is
   talking through his hat.

   Both violent crime and property crime have declined dramatically since
   1973. New York City will probably notch up less than 500 murders this
   year, the lowest since the early 1960s (the figure for 1990 was
   2,262). Teenagers are cleaning up their act. Teenage drug use has
   fallen by 23% overall since the 1990s, and by 50% for LSD and ecstasy.
   Teens are drinking less, smoking less, having sex less and dropping
   out of school less. The birth rate for 15-19-year-olds has fallen by
   35% since 1991. At 10%, the high-school drop-out rate is at a 30-year
   low.

   Welfare reform is working. The welfare caseload has dropped by 60%
   since 1994. A series of social evils--overall poverty, child poverty,
   child hunger--have all decreased. Employment figures for single
   mothers have surged. The number of abortions fell from over 1.6m in
   1990 to fewer than 1.3m this year. The divorce rate is at its lowest
   level since 1970. Education scores are up.

   Things are not all hunky-dory. The violent crime rate has ticked
   upward in the past couple of years. Illegitimacy is at an all-time
   high. But this is a very different world from the 1970s, when
   America's leading cultural indicators all started to point towards
   Gomorrah. American civil society, aided by sensible social policies,
   is gradually repairing the damage of the past few decades.

   Lighten up, Pat

   What about Mr Buchanan's particular bugbear, immigration? For all the
   passion that this is igniting, America is blessedly free from the
   alienated immigrant populations that so trouble France and other
   European countries. America still has a genius for employing and
   assimilating newcomers. English classes are crammed and
   English-language tuition is a giant business. And America's ability to
   suck in and assimilate immigrants is part of a bigger and better
   story. European economies face profound long-term problems because of
   their citizens' reluctance to reproduce. Americans have the highest
   fertility rate of any rich country. That is a long-term vote of
   confidence in the country's future.

   In fact, Americans have always had a vigorous tradition of pessimism,
   in counterpoint to the optimistic one. In 1819 John Adams worried
   about the duration of "our vast American Empire". In 1948 Richard
   Hofstadter complained that "competition and opportunity" had gone into
   decline and that Americans were looking "wistfully back toward a
   golden age". Much of today's pessimism may prove as unfounded.
   Americans should rediscover the spirit of Lloyd Christmas, idiot
   though he was.


   How the interior is learning to live with a shrinking population

   IN EASTERN Colorado, the human tide ebbs. Cheyenne county, which had
   3,700 inhabitants in 1930, now has just 1,900. And the drift away from
   the area seems to be speeding up. In the old county jail, which is now
   a museum, a photograph from 1910 shows a three-storey schoolhouse
   towering over the town of Cheyenne Wells. The new school is one storey
   high--yet it already seems too big.

   America as a whole is growing briskly. Between 2000 and 2006 its
   population swelled by 6.4%, according to the Census Bureau. Yet the
   expansion has passed many areas by. Two-fifths of all counties are
   shrinking (see map). In general, people are moving to places that are
   warm, mountainous or suburban. They are leaving many rural areas, with
   the most relentless decline in a broad band stretching from western
   Texas to North Dakota. In parts, the Great Plains are more sparsely
   populated now than they were in the late 19th century, when the
   government declared them to be deserted.

   A big reason is improvements in farming technology. Tractors in
   eastern Colorado do not resemble the vehicles that trundle around
   farms on the east coast and in Europe. They are many-wheeled monsters,
   sometimes driven by global positioning systems. Toby Johnson says his
   40,000-acre (16,200-hectare) ranch in Cheyenne county employed between
   eight and ten workers in the 1950s. It now has two, including him.
   When old farmers retire, their plots tend to be swallowed up by
   larger, more efficient operators.

   The population of the Great Plains teeters on this shrinking
   agricultural base. While much of Colorado grew, Cheyenne county shrank
   every year between 2000 and 2006, when it lost more than 300 people.
   Children are disappearing even more quickly. Ten years ago 495 pupils
   enrolled in the county's public schools; this year 320 did. In Kit
   Carson, the second-biggest settlement, the school enrolled just four
   teenagers in the tenth grade. Shops and houses nearby are already
   boarded up. If the school were to close, there would be little reason
   for the town to exist at all.

   Rayetta Palmer, a councilwoman in Cheyenne Wells, can nonetheless cite
   a list of local strengths. The few children get lots of attention: Kit
   Carson's schools have a pupil-to-teacher ratio of seven to one,
   compared with 18 to one in Denver, the state capital. As a result,
   they do well in tests. Crime is rare. The community is strikingly
   cohesive: at the petrol stations that double as cafs, locals do not
   take empty tables but sit together, as in a school dining room.

   The trouble is that such qualities are not the sort of thing that
   might persuade businesses to move to the area. Some are more likely to
   deter them. The strong community spirit sometimes morphs into a fierce
   resistance to change, particularly when it is advocated by newcomers.
   Cindy Perry, who has tried to revitalise Kit Carson by renovating
   buildings and starting a shop, woke one morning to find a
   newly-painted building covered with graffiti.

   Fighting back

   Optimists point to two likely developments that may slow the decline.
   Assuming a power line is built, wind farms will probably appear in the
   area in the next few years, as they have in western Texas. That will
   generate construction jobs and tax revenues. A more ambitious proposal
   involves building a "super-highway" between Mexico and Canada, which
   would pass through eastern Colorado. Backers say it would almost
   double traffic through Cheyenne county, leading to an increase in jobs
   and perhaps even in people. Yet the road is many years from being
   built.

   Cheyenne county is not especially poor. Indeed, at the moment it is
   enjoying an agricultural boom. Heavy snow last winter, combined with a
   drought in Australia, means local wheat farmers have a large crop to
   sell at record prices, which touched $10 a bushel for the first time
   last month. In parts of north-east Colorado, corn farmers are
   profiting from a strong demand for ethanol. Yet the future of
   irrigated agriculture (the most profitable kind) is gloomy. In central
   Colorado, thirsty cities have been buying water rights from farmers.
   Elsewhere, farmers have been prevented from pumping groundwater by
   lawyers in Kansas, downriver. If the wells close, the corn boom will
   end.

   There is a somewhat drastic alternative. In the 1980s two academics
   from Rutgers University suggested turning the plains into a "buffalo
   commons", where the animals that grazed the area before white
   immigration would be encouraged to return. The idea was so unpopular
   that its authors occasionally had to be protected by police. But it is
   nonetheless coming to pass.

   Buffalo meat is leaner than beef, and thus well suited to contemporary
   health worries. Partly as a result, the buffalo are coming back: some
   62,000 were slaughtered between January and November last year, a 17%
   rise over a year earlier. Of the plains states, only North Dakota has
   openly mulled turning over large tracts of land to the furry
   megafauna. But other areas, including eastern Colorado, have preserved
   grasslands and are touting their natural resources and history--a
   vivid one of brutal treks and Indian massacres.

   Jo Downey of the Plains Development Corporation reckons nothing can
   stop the drift away from places like Cheyenne county, and others
   agree. The challenge for the future is not to stem the tide, but to
   keep life as pleasant as possible for those who remain. This is not an
   easy task. Compared with the consequences of rapid growth, such as
   traffic jams and illegal immigration, to which so much political
   energy is devoted, the problems of depopulation can appear
   intractable.


                                                         Kevin Kallaugher

                              Kevin Kallaugher

   Al Gore has more to lose than to gain from running for president

   THINGS just keep on getting better for Al Gore. He is not only a
   global-warming guru--the man who changed the climate of opinion on
   climate change--he is also an all-purpose political guru as well. He
   was mocked back in 2000 for accusing George Bush of "risky schemes".
   Since then Mr Bush has turned into a Pandora's box of risky schemes.
   He was ridiculed in America back in 2002 for denouncing the invasion
   of Iraq. Few would ridicule him today. Europeans only have to look at
   Mr Gore (and these days there is slightly more of him to look at) to
   think of what life might have been like without the Toxic Texan.
   Surely he will soon have a Nobel peace prize to add to his Oscar.

   Mr Gore remains a whirlwind of activity. His new book, "The Assault on
   Reason", lets the Bush administration have it with both barrels,
   accusing it of sacrificing evidence to ideology and constitutional
   restraints to zealotry. But he does not stop there. He worries about
   America's money-saturated politics. He lambasts television for
   infantilising the electorate. American democracy, it seems, is as sick
   as the planet.

   Soon he will reappear in his global-warming guise--this time as an
   impresario of nine simultaneous "Live Earth" pop concerts on seven
   continents, including Antarctica, on July 7th. These concerts will
   solidify Mr Gore's reputation among the young for "getting it". They
   will also publicise his new organisation, the Alliance for Climate
   Protection.

   All of which raises the question: should Mr Gore revive his political
   career? Rumours that he is planning to jump into the presidential race
   are everywhere. It is even said that his friends have established a
   secret campaign organisation. He has only to refuse a second helping
   of fried chicken, on the ground that he's watching his weight, and
   it's assumed he's running.

   Mr Gore is well enough known to get into the race late. And a late
   entry could well carry him all the way to the nomination--exciting the
   party's left, creating a media frenzy, and making Hillary Clinton and
   Barack Obama look like old news. "He's going to run," James Carville,
   a consultant-turned-pundit, has told Rolling Stone, "and he's going to
   be formidable."

   Formidable or not, Mr Gore should resist such siren voices. He may
   have been in the business since he was 28. He may have run for
   president before he was 40. But he is the very opposite of a natural,
   like Bill Clinton or Mr Obama. He looks horribly out of place in the
   political bear pit. And he consistently sells himself short as a
   politician--emphasising expediency over vision even when vision might
   have been in his interest, as when he all but ignored global warming
   in 2000.

   Mr Gore lost an unlosable election in 2000 (yes, he won the popular
   vote, but the election should never have been close). He had eight
   years of peace and prosperity behind him. His opponent was an
   inexperienced scamp who could not name the president of Pakistan. But
   Mr Gore sighed his way through the first debate and painted himself
   orange in the third. He could easily have solved the Monica problem by
   promising to be Bill Clinton without the blow jobs; instead he
   embraced a silly "people against the powerful" populism.

   At last, the real Al Gore

   Mr Gore's friends say that he has at last discovered his real
   self--casting off his old inhibitions and letting his passion rip. But
   surely he is only at ease with himself precisely because he has
   abandoned politics? And surely the old Gore would re-emerge if he made
   another bid for the White House? He would inevitably have to talk
   about more than global warming. And he would have to make a compromise
   with the campaign-finance system that he now excoriates. How long
   would it be before he found himself in a Buddhist temple begging for
   money?

   Mr Gore always gave the impression that he was in politics out of duty
   rather than vocation--his father, a self-made Tennessee senator,
   dearly wanted his son to be president. But that ambition became a
   prison for Mr Gore. It forced a natural introvert to spend his time
   with people and turned a natural didact into a deal-maker. More
   important, Mr Gore has found his real calling at last: as a public
   intellectual cum polemicist cum elder statesman. He is not a perfect
   polemicist. His style is on the stodgy side. His latest book goes over
   a lot of well-tilled ground about Mr Bush's "faith-based policies". He
   sometimes comes across as eccentric--as when he lambasts television
   for killing public discourse, then celebrates the internet as its
   potential saviour. A few minutes online, reading the zealots on either
   the right or the left, should have been enough to explode that
   illusion.

   Nevertheless the whole package is compelling. Mr Gore brings a unique
   qualification to his writing: the fact that he has operated at the
   highest level of government. He writes like somebody with something
   important to say. He packs his argument with facts and illustrations.
   Above all, he has a genius for getting his message
   across--button-holing leaders the world over, producing different
   versions of his book for children and young adults, training more than
   1,000 "climate messengers" and generally refusing to let go of the
   bone. "Those who believe all his garbage are going to be excited to
   death," Trent Lott, a senior Republican senator, sneered during Mr
   Gore's recent appearance before a congressional committee. But a
   surprising number of Republican backbenchers were quietly excited.

   Enoch Powell, a British politician, once remarked that "all political
   lives end in failure because that is the nature of politics and of
   human affairs." In one sense Mr Gore's career ended in spectacular
   failure--the presidency ripped from his grasp. But in another he won a
   rare chance at an afterlife. He is the country's conscience on its
   gas-guzzling ways. He is also the president America never had. Better,
   surely, to be a presidential might-have-been than just another member
   of the 2008 freak show.


   An idea revered in theory, not in practice

   BARACK OBAMA won the Iowa caucus on January 3rd with a message that
   emphasised hope, unity and working together across party lines. By
   doing so he may have dispatched a formidable foe: not Hillary Clinton,
   who fought back and won the New Hampshire primary, but Michael
   Bloomberg. For several years there have been rumours that the mayor of
   New York is considering an independent run for the presidency. These
   gained credence following his decision to speak at the University of
   Oklahoma's conference on bipartisanship, on January 7th.

   The point of the event, as David Boren, the university's president and
   a former senator, explained, was to "resurrect that kind of bipartisan
   statesmanship that united us as Americans to win the cold war." Some
   observers took this as a sign that the conference would be a sort of
   coming-out party for a Bloomberg campaign. And Mr Boren admitted that
   he would be tempted to support an independent candidate "if the two
   parties do not rise to the occasion."

   But after Iowa and New Hampshire there may be less space for a
   bipartisan candidate. Mr Obama is not soon going to be knocked out by
   Mrs Clinton, and John McCain, for the Republicans, has staged a
   remarkable resurrection: both men specialise in appealing across party
   boundaries. Mr Bloomberg, for his part, has repeated that he is not in
   the running, and said that he hoped the conference could serve as a
   "catalyst" for a more harmonious discourse.

   Bipartisanship is a popular cause. All the serious presidential
   candidates say they are for it. Republicans Mitt Romney and Rudy
   Giuliani were elected in the Democratic strongholds of Massachusetts
   and New York City respectively. Mrs Clinton, one of the most
   polarising women in politics, has a reputation for working well with
   her Republican colleagues in the Senate.

   This big talk may prove empty, as so often before. Faced with the
   choice between reaching across the aisle and ginning up turnout by
   appeals to the base, parties often yield to temptation. And
   politicians seldom police themselves. Even so, the spectre of a
   third-party candidacy is encouraging the Democrats and Republicans to
   behave a little better. Mr Bloomberg cannot afford to wait too long
   for the mask to crack.


   LOS ANGELES--Acting on information gathered from billboards,
   alternative weeklies, and Internet banner ads, an FBI strike team
   liberated 14 dazed, sallow, and undernourished American Apparel models
   in a raid on the controversial organization's downtown Los Angeles
   compound early Monday.

   "There were girls lying everywhere--draped over furniture, sprawled
   spread-eagled in the corner, and huddled close like animals," FBI
   Special Agent Curtis Froman, who oversaw  the raid, said at a press
   conference. "Many of them had been given nothing more than a pair of
   tube socks or men's briefs to wear."
   [4]Enlarge Image American Apparel 

   Law enforcement officials continued clearing models from the compound
   into the early morning hours.

   Froman said it took agents nearly 20 minutes to cut through the
   holding-cell padlocks, only to find the ambiguously ethnic-looking
   captives living in "unspeakable conditions."

   "They just stared up at us with blank expressions of utter confusion,"
   Froman added. "I don't think they'd seen the sun in weeks."

   Nine American Apparel security enforcers were also killed during the
   raid.

   The models, who range in age from 18 to 22 but appear to be 12 to 14,
   were taken to an emergency safehouse where they were given food,
   clothing, and access to soap. Officials said they were conducting
   tests to determine whether the girls were subjected to brainwashing
   during their captivity.

   "I thought it would never end," said Fiara, a Brazilian-Finnish
   brunette who was held in an empty white room for weeks in nothing but
   Lycra tights and a halter top. "I can't believe how good it feels to
   wear something that buttons again."

   After freeing the captives, many of whom appeared drugged, agents
   seized thousands of amateur Polaroids and several dozen pairs of
   oversized sunglasses whose purpose remains unclear, FBI reports said.
   [5]American Apparel Slideshow 

   Evidence From The Case

   "We may never know the full extent of what went on in there," Special
   Agent Hugh Conroy said. "We do know they were held against their will
   in an airless, windowless basement under harsh fluorescent lights,
   forced to sign liability waivers, and posed in contorted positions on
   bare cement floors. "The humiliating combinations of flimsy unitards,
   leg warmers, and '70s-inspired tank tops they were forced to wear
   clearly show a deranged mind at work. Those poor, poor girls."

   Several models said they were initially drawn in by American Apparel's
   progressive environmental policies, sweatshop-free manufacturing, and
   youthful corporate identity. But their dreams of success were soon
   shattered.

   "Before I knew it, I was squatting on the floor in this humid room
   with a camera pointed at my crotch," said model Gabrielle, whose image
   can be found on the back page of this newspaper.

   Law enforcement agencies have long suspected that the company's
   much-vaunted vertically integrated structure deliberately hid the
   unpleasant realities of this international model-exploitation ring.
   Despite their ongoing investigations, agents present during the raid
   were "completely unprepared" for the level of degradation they
   discovered inside the American Apparel facility.

   "I'll never forget those hollow, emotionless eyes," Special Agent Jane
   Cosgrove said. "I don't care how many stock options they were
   given--nothing is worth what those girls went through."

   Still at large, FBI sources say, is the models' alleged captor, a
   shadowy, unkempt, elaborately facial-haired figure in his late 30s or
   early 40s known only as "the Creepy Man."


   SAN CLEMENTE, CA--Five years after settling in southern California and
   trying to blend into American society, a six-man terrorist cell
   connected to the militant Islamist organization Army of Martyrs has
   reportedly grown too complacent to conduct its suicide mission, an
   attack on the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station.
   [4]Enlarge Image After Five Years 

   Three of the six terrorists spend an afternoon together watching an
   America's Next Top Model marathon.

   According to cell leader and boat owner Jameel al-Sharif, the
   potentially devastating operation, which involves breaching the
   station's reactor core and triggering a meltdown that could rival the
   Chernobyl disaster, "can wait."

   "We remain wholly committed to the destruction of America, the Great
   Satan," al-Sharif said. "But now is not a good time for us. The season
   finale of Lost was such a cliff- hanger that we have to at least catch
   the first episode of the new season. After that, though, death to the
   infidels."

   "Probably," added al-Sharif, who noted that his nearly $6,000 in
   credit-card debt from recent purchases of a 52-inch HDTV and a
   backyard gas grill prevents him from buying needed materials for the
   attack.

   Though the members of the cell said that they "live only to spill the
   blood of crusaders who oppress Muslims," they cited additional reasons
   for the delay, including an unexpired free Netflix trial and nagging
   lower-back pain.

   "I think I'm entitled to a little time to fully enjoy the in-dash MP3
   adapter and heads-up display that Allah, in His infinite wisdom, has
   seen fit to provide me with," munitions expert Mohammed Akram said of
   the 2006 Mercury Mariner that is intended to be used as a car bomb
   during the attack. "Also, I have nine months left on the lease. But
   after that, I am more than willing to load it with explosives and go
   to my glory in its all-leather interior and heated seats."

   Cell member Sayyid al-Tantawi, a Cairo-born former physics professor
   who was able to obtain employment at San Onofre as a reactor
   technician, once routinely worked 18-hour days so he could secretly
   obtain security codes and detailed schematics of the facility. But
   since his promotion to senior project manager last November,
   al-Tantawi has grown accustomed to perks such as higher pay, mandatory
   vacation time, delegation of responsibilities, and long lunches with
   other managers.

   "Don't get me wrong, I totally wish swift and painful death to all
   American pigs, especially that jerk [general manager] Dave [Landis],"
   al-Tantawi said. "But I'm no longer the new guy--why bust my ass all
   day long anymore? When I get home after a day at work, I don't savor
   staying up all night designing dirty-bomb triggering mechanisms like I
   did when I first got here. Sometimes I just want to pop in a CD by
   that soulful infidel Chris Daughtry and relax."

   Al-Tantawi added that due to the sedentary nature of his job, he would
   have to "lose a few pounds, Allah willing" before being able to
   fulfill his most challenging task: infiltrating the reactor's spent
   fuel storage area and draining its coolant, thereby triggering a fire
   and releasing radioactive material.

   Indeed, general preparedness appears to be the cell's greatest
   stumbling block.

   "Five a.m. is when the facility is most vulnerable to attack, when the
   morning shift security personnel replace the overnight crew," said
   Adib Dhakwan, the cell's second-in-command. "Unfortunately, Starbucks
   doesn't open until six, and I don't know about you, but if I don't
   have that first cup of coffee, forget it."

   Despite the terrorists' successful assimilation into American society,
   the FBI has been monitoring the activities of the "San Clemente Six"
   since late 2005. According to declassified intelligence documents, the
   cell's status was recently downgraded to "low risk," due in part to a
   near absence of cell phone chatter to parties other than Moviefone,
   and last month's online purchase of a hammock.


   HARTFORD, CT--Eager to distinguish himself in the nine-member field of
   Democratic candidates, presidential hopeful Sen. Joe Lieberman (D-CT)
   pledged Monday to "gloss over any and all issues boring to Americans
   today."

   [4]Enlarge Image Lieberman Pledges To Gloss Over The Boring Issues 

   Lieberman tells Hartford voters he'll be brief.

   "Are you sick of politics as usual in Washington?" Lieberman said at a
   campaign fundraiser held at the downtown Hartford Hilton. "Are you
   sick of politics in general? Well, I can see why. Politics, frankly,
   is boring. In this campaign, I promise to slide past the tedious
   issues and get to the point: I want to be your next president! Vote
   Joe in 2004!"

   "Endless details, mathematical proposals, and tax plans," Lieberman
   continued. "Why should the nation as a whole have to tolerate all
   that?"

   Lieberman, among the most politically moderate of the Democratic
   hopefuls, first delivered this new stump speech in New York on Oct. 3.
   On that day, he promised a group of factory workers in Buffalo that
   all future speeches would focus on his ultimate goals instead of on
   the intricate workings of his actual proposals.

   "Americans are very busy, and I won't bore them with the details of my
   positions," Lieberman said. "I think George W. Bush is doing a
   terrible job as America's chief executive, both at home and abroad.
   I'd do much better. I'd keep America safe. It's all very complicated
   when you get into it, so I'll spare you the boring legislation-this
   and appropriations-that. All you need to know is that I'm on it."

   To growing applause, Lieberman quickly ran through a list of issues
   important to voters.

   "The economy? I'll make it better," he said. "Reconstruction of Iraq?
   No problem. International relations? I'll patch those up in my first
   100 days. Poverty? I got a plan."

   "World trade? Women's rights? Education? Yes, yes, and yes," said
   Lieberman, who spent the next 45 minutes discussing the Red Sox.

   Reached by phone at his office Tuesday, Lieberman re-emphasized his
   commitment to instituting change, rather than talking about the
   mechanics of instituting change.

   "This great nation needs a leader who's willing to roll up his
   sleeves," he said. "Exactly what I'm going to do, and how I'm going to
   do it--ack, forget about it. Unlike some of my opponents, I solemnly
   pledge not to annoy you with endless status reports in the process."

   This new message marks a change for Lieberman, who relied on
   hard-to-understand, fact-riddled positions during his unsuccessful bid
   for the vice-presidency in 2000.

   "I'm the same Joe Lieberman I've always been, just a little easier to
   tolerate in long stretches," Lieberman said. "I haven't changed on the
   issues, though--just look at my voting record. Actually, don't waste
   your time. Those things are really dense."

   When pressed for more information, Lieberman sighed.

   "Well, you asked for it," Lieberman said. "I'm pro-business,
   pro-national-security, and pro-health-care. I'm a bit more
   conservative than some of the other Democratic candidates in this
   race. But I'm a lot less boring. That's the last time you'll hear all
   of that."

   A reporter asked Lieberman for his stance on Chinese currency
   valuation after Monday's speech.

   Lieberman shook his head. "Listen, I know that the renminbi has been
   pegged within a narrow band around 8.3 to the U.S. dollar for nearly a
   decade, and that China refuses to revalue it despite increasing
   international pressure," he said. "But everyone else in the country
   doesn't need to know that. If there's a problem, I'll do everything in
   my power to fix it. Now, back to the real issue: I can and will skip
   right past the whoozits and whatsits. Not just during the election,
   but throughout my entire term as president."

   While he acknowledged that some critics see Lieberman's pledge as
   simplistic, campaign director Craig Smith said it demonstrates the
   senator's understanding of the average voter.

   Lieberman's web site is only one page long. It features a short
   bullet-point list of his stance on issues--pro-business,
   pro-national-security, and pro-health-care--and two helpful charts of
   "Joe's Likes" and "Joe's Dislikes."

   Many voters have responded positively to Lieberman's campaign promise.

   "I liked his speech. It was nice and short," said Carol Meadows, 45,
   of Lancaster, PA. "He said he'd fix everything that's wrong, and then
   the music started playing again."

   Some critics have dismissed Lieberman's concise message as a
   vote-grabbing ploy, launched in response to the record-breaking
   fundraising of former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean and retired Army Gen.
   Wesley Clark. But Lieberman's press secretary, Jano Cabrera, insisted
   that the senator's campaign strategy was intended to benefit the
   public, not the campaign.

   "Let me ask you this: Would the average American rather read the
   Financial Times or People?" Cabrera said. "Joe Lieberman is finally
   giving the people what they want, while other candidates just go on
   and on and on and on."

   "It's like, next campaign stop: Yawnsville," said Cabrera, who then
   pretended to fall asleep standing up. "Wake me up when Howard Dean's
   done talking."


   HARRISONBURG, VA--Rescue workers and concerned neighbors gathered
   Saturday outside the Conklin residence on Waterson Avenue where
   authorities say local child David Conklin remains trapped in a
   dangerously lame family, a harrowing ordeal now entering its 13th
   tense year.
   [4]Enlarge Image Rescue workers attempt to rush life-saving games and
   snacks to the boy. 

   Rescue workers attempt to rush life-saving games and snacks to the
   boy.

   When police arrived on the scene Saturday morning, David--who recently
   entered junior high and is clearly not a baby anymore--was found
   pinned under two inflexible parents who rendered him completely
   immobile. Officers are working around the clock to free the boy and
   give him a second chance at a social life.

   "At this time we're doing everything we can to make [David] as
   comfortable as possible," said Lt. William Barnes of the Harrisonburg
   Fire Department, who coordinated efforts to provide the 12-year-old
   with a warm North Face jacket to replace the retarded hand- me-down
   parka that once belonged to his older brother, Stephen. "But
   realistically, this situation could go on for at least another six
   years. That is, God forbid, if he doesn't die of boredom first."
     Conklin

   Conklin

   Authorities are still unsure how the seventh grader became trapped in
   such a boring family, though David's 15-year-old sister, Laura, put
   forth several theories, including speculation that David was an
   accident or, alternatively, was adopted from gypsies.

   With rescue efforts continuing throughout the afternoon, early hopes
   that David would escape through a small hole of free time between
   dinner and lights-out were quickly dashed when he became entangled in
   a family game night and was nearly crushed by the tedium of playing
   hand after tortuous hand of UNO.

   "We're trying to get a Nintendo Wii in there to relieve some of the
   pressure," Barnes said. "David is in a very tight spot. Even if we get
   him the game console, the restrictions he's currently under may
   prevent him from using it."

   "Our biggest fear right now is the possibility that David is being
   smothered," Barnes continued.

   A second chance for relief came at 8:35 p.m., when David's dogged
   efforts to free himself forced his parents to budge slightly and
   consider allowing their son to watch television at friend Philip
   Kirchart's house. However, David's potential escape route was almost
   instantly blocked by a massive pile of homework.
   [5]Enlarge Image Desperate Situation 

   "This is a huge setback in freeing David," said Barnes, who expressed
   frustration with the deteriorating situation. "If he doesn't get that
   diorama for Mrs. Engles' class off his back before nightfall, I'm
   afraid we'll just have to wait until morning."

   Despite all attempts by his rescuers, David's situation has grown
   increasingly grim. At 4:16 p.m., the boy nearly died of embarrassment
   after his mother asked him if there were any cute girls in his class,
   and again less than two hours later at dinner, when she openly
   discussed his need for new underwear.

   Additionally, medical experts said that David's preexisting condition,
   known as smartmouth, could be severely exacerbated by the dumb, unfair
   family environment he has been subjected to.

   "This becomes an even more serious situation for someone like David,"
   said Louis Vianna, a paramedic on the scene. "A diagnosed wiseacre in
   a stifling environment like that could suffer a full-scale grounding
   at any moment, which would cut David off from vital weekend plans."

   David's agonizing experience has elicited an outpouring of support
   from the community. A local radio station recently held a fundraiser
   to purchase David the desperately needed dirt bike that the
   fun-deprived boy has repeatedly begged for throughout the ordeal, and
   people from around the country have sent letters to David, urging him
   to hang on until he can get his driver's license.

   "No child should have to go through something like this," said Carla
   Berman, one of the dozens of anxious citizens keeping vigil outside
   the Conklin house. "That poor, brave kid. It's not like he asked to be
   born into this."


   LOS ANGELES--If you ask Dale Henderson, a local assassin who
   celebrated his eighth wedding anniversary last month, lone gunman John
   Kingsley has no idea how good he has it.

   Able to stay out as late as he wants holding innocent civilians
   hostage, and free to make weekend murder plans without first getting
   permission from his wife, the 29-year-old bachelor is "as lucky as
   they come."
   [4]Enlarge Image Lone Gunman 

   Henderson, stuck at home doing chores again.

   "What I'd give to trade places with that guy," Henderson said Monday
   after watching Kingsley shoot up a community college campus on the
   evening news. "Running around firing indiscriminately into a crowd of
   people--now that's someone who doesn't have to wake up early to go
   furniture shopping tomorrow."

   "Enjoy it while it lasts, buddy," Henderson added. "Enjoy it while it
   lasts."

   Henderson, 37, who said he hasn't had a spare moment to himself atop
   an abandoned warehouse in months, openly admitted that he was jealous
   of Kingsley's lifestyle. Tired of always having to stop trailing a
   potential victim to pick up a gallon of milk, Henderson said he can
   only hope Kingsley doesn't take his freedom for granted.

   "John should appreciate how fortunate he is to be able to spend all
   night staring unblinkingly at his bedroom's ceiling fan," Henderson
   said. "Don't get me wrong, I love Sheila. But sometimes a man just
   needs some time alone to plan the untimely death of a local judge."

   After an afternoon spent wistfully leafing through old news clippings
   from his life as a carefree, single gunman, Henderson seemed to long
   for the days when he could walk up to any random attractive woman on
   the street, put a gun to her head, and pull the trigger without having
   to feel guilty.

   Henderson also said he wished he still had the freedom to cover the
   walls of his home with photos of supermodels, celebrity athletes, and
   other future targets rather than the dainty flower patterns his wife
   selected.

   "Often when I'm helping Sheila clean out the attic, I wonder what that
   lucky lone gunman is up to with all his spare time," Henderson said.
   "Probably climbing to the top of a clock tower or threatening to pump
   some worthless bastard full of lead if he calls the police."

   Added Henderson, "God, I know I would be."

   Kingsley's recent slaughter at an area McDonald's has also been
   difficult for the married gunman to endure, since his wife would
   "probably have [his] head" if he ever set foot inside a fast-food
   restaurant. And, with countless new responsibilities, Henderson
   claimed that, unlike Kingsley, the closest he ever gets to terrorizing
   a post office nowadays is going out to mail Christmas cards.

   "It must be nice not to have to answer to anyone, or explain where
   you've been all day," Henderson said. "And I can't imagine John has
   ever totally missed the visiting presidential motorcade because
   someone forgot to put gas in the car."

   Though Henderson remains jealous that, as a young wanted man, Kingsley
   gets to sleep in a different safe house every night, he admitted that
   matrimony still has its upsides.

   "It's nice to know there's always someone waiting there for you,
   regardless of how bad your day has been," Henderson said. "Plus, the
   alibi thing doesn't hurt."


   LOS ANGELES-Libertarian Party officials announced Monday that their
   2000 National Convention will be held August 18-20 in an efficiency
   apartment just off La Brea Avenue in Los Angeles.

   [4]Enlarge Image L.A. Efficiency Chosen 

   A worker makes preparations for the upcoming 2000 Libertarian
   Convention.

   "As one of the nation's largest cities, Los Angeles provides an ideal
   stage for us to spread our message of personal and economic
   self-governance," said Libertarian national director Steve Dasbach,
   explaining his party's choice of venue at a kitchenette press
   conference. "Also, it was [Libertarian Party national chairman] David
   [Bergland]'s turn to host, since it was held at my place in '96."

   The convention is expected to be the largest in party history, drawing
   upwards of 45 Libertarians to the second-floor apartment in the
   Mulholland Terrace complex. In preparation for the event, 15 extra
   folding chairs have been ordered by party leaders, as well as 12
   two-liter bottles of Pepsi, Sprite, and Diet Mountain Dew.

   "It is our belief that government's role is simply to defend the
   citizen from coercion and violence, and nothing more," said
   Libertarian presidential candidate Harry Browne, hanging a
   "Browne-Olivier 2000" banner above the efficiency's futon. "That means
   military service should be voluntary, the minimum wage should be
   eliminated, and taxes should be replaced with user fees for services."

   Added Browne: "Feel free to take our two-minute quiz to find out if
   you're a Libertarian and don't even know it."

   "We hold that all individuals have the right to exercise sole dominion
   over their own lives, and have the right to live in whatever manner
   they choose, so long as they do not forcibly interfere with the equal
   rights of others," said Dasbach, wearing a "Repeal All Sex Laws"
   button on his lapel. "This August, that ideal will pass from Apartment
   12B to the world."

   With one month to go before the convention, the Libertarian platform
   is set. The party will demand an end to government subsidies for
   businesses and farms, the elimination of patrols at U.S. borders, and
   the decriminalization of crack cocaine. Party members also support the
   making of traffic signals "recommended but not mandatory," as well as
   a plan to move America's heavy industry to platforms in low Earth
   orbit by 2007.

     L.A. Efficiency Chosen jump

   The Ohio and Vermont delegations rally during the 1996 Libertarian
   Convention.

   Despite such philosophical unity, some decisions still need to be made
   before the convention. Seating arrangements are in flux as organizers
   await word of the pro-LSD lobby's attendance, as well as that of the
   Illinois delegation's wife. Pizza toppings also remain up in the air,
   with a key bloc of five Southern delegates favoring pepperoni over the
   more popular mushroom-and-green-pepper for the planned six extra-large
   pies.

   "The number of topics and speakers on our agenda was the reason we
   couldn't hold the convention at the Ventura Boulevard Denny's as
   originally planned," said Holly Pfizer, convention co-chair and one of
   the nation's leading advocates of the privatization of police. "Plus,
   they add a 15 percent gratuity for parties of eight or more, and that
   would have severely depleted our campaign war chest."

   A portion of the money saved by not holding the convention at Denny's
   will go toward the featured entertainment, a live performance by
   singer Don Henley that was recorded in 1998 and will be played on the
   apartment's stereo.

   "Whenever you have this many Libertarians in one place, there's going
   to be some disagreement," said author and gun-control opponent William
   McPeters, who will deliver a speech titled, "Why I Abandoned The GOP,
   And How America's Drug-Legalization Activists Can Profit From The
   Coming Economic Devaluation." "But if America's Libertarians join
   together as a strong, unified force, well, there's just no limit to
   what 57 people can accomplish."


   LOS ANGELES--A chilling national poll of U.S. children ages 3 through
   12 estimated that nearly 75 million youngsters suffer both physical
   and psychological abuse at the hands of their parents on a daily
   basis.
   [4]Enlarge Image Majority Of Children 

   An abused child awaits her single allotted hour of television per day.

   The poll, whose findings are part of a 700-page report released
   Tuesday by a coalition of child abuse monitoring and prevention
   organizations, indicts nearly 95 percent of American parents. It
   documents abuses ranging from less severe offenses, such as children
   being denied snacks just before dinner, to more egregious, long-term
   cases of neglect, such as never ever getting what they want, ever.

   "My parents always tell me that I have to finish all my math homework
   or I won't be allowed to watch TV," said study participant and abuse
   victim "Derek," 10, who told researchers that some of his earliest
   memories were of this kind of mistreatment. "They're so mean. I hate
   them."

   "I hate them, I hate them, I hate them," he added.

   Encouraged to speak freely and confidentially about their home lives,
   subjects shocked even seasoned child welfare advocates with tales of
   systematic deprival and gratuitous cruelty. One Illinois boy told of
   being forced to linger with his mother in fabric stores and later
   leaving a Toys "R" Us empty-handed, even though the store sold a water
   gun he really wanted. An Arkansas 9-year-old said he spent all of
   third grade carrying a boring brown backpack instead of a super-cool
   Spider-Man one like a friend, whose parents love him, had. And a
   6-year-old girl from Wisconsin was forced to sit at a dining room
   table for nearly two hours until she finished her canned green beans,
   a food widely considered by poll respondents to be disgusting and
   suitable only for adults.

   "To hear the sadness in these kids' voices when they talk about how
   they are scared--literally scared--to bring home poor report cards, is
   heartbreaking," said Dr. Deirdre Fulton, child psychologist and
   director of the Nationwide Coalition to End Child Abuse, who
   co-authored the study. "Some of the children we interviewed even
   wished they were dead so their parents would feel guilty at their
   funerals."

   "No child should ever wish to die," Fulton added.

   According to pollsters, most victims were surprisingly open, even
   eager, to discuss their abuse, although some were less forthcoming
   about traumatic experiences that involved inappropriate touching.

   "It's so embarrassing, and everybody sees it," said 7-year-old
   "Harry," whose mother hugs and kisses him goodbye in front of the
   school bus every day. "When it's happening, I close my eyes and wish
   it would stop, but it just goes on forever."

   Other victims recounted similar forms of privacy invasion, such as
   being asked if they were wearing clean underwear, and being stripped
   naked and made to bathe, even after clearly stating that they did not
   need a bath.

   Hair is another focus of unseemly pathological fixations, many
   children allege: Six out of 10 girls interviewed said that their
   mothers routinely and painfully pull, twist, and tug their hair into
   "stupid" hairstyles like pigtails, and some boys said that their
   mothers go so far as to use saliva to paste their hair into place.

   According to the report, a shocking 100 percent of children who
   claimed to have been abused said their parents repeatedly answered
   "maybe" to a request, and then withheld from them a definitive answer
   for hours or, in some cases, days.

   In addition to those who admitted to being touched inappropriately, 93
   percent of children said they have, at one point or another, been
   subject to various types of physical abuse.

   "My parents make me practice the piano for like 20 hours a day," said
   8-year-old "Lacy," adding that sometimes she will hide in her closet
   to avoid rehearsal. "They told me if I hate it so much I can quit when
   I'm in seventh grade. That's like 40 years from now."

   Some children, mostly boys, have even been pressed into brutal
   physical labor by their fathers, who demand their sons help them in
   the yard on Saturdays--one of only two days off for children who spend
   an average of 600 hours a week at school.

   "He treats me like a slave," 12-year-old "Michael" said. "It's like
   it's my fault that my dad decided to buy a house with a lawn. And then
   when I do help, he says I shouldn't have had a bad attitude about it."

   "Mom just sits there and lets the entire thing happen," "Michael"
   added.

   In some of the more disturbing cases of abuse, parents reportedly take
   a domineering interest in their children's social lives, often
   threatening severe but undefined punishment for not being home by
   dark. Some children said their parents attempt to cut them off
   completely from the outside world, making many websites and television
   channels inaccessible and never letting them hang out with their
   friends.

   The National Parents Association declined to comment on the
   overwhelming levels of abuse. When asked why they wouldn't comment,
   the NPA released a tersely worded statement: "Because we said so."


   WASHINGTON--After decades spent battling gender discrimination and
   inequality in the workplace, the feminist movement underwent a
   high-level shake-up last month, when 53-year-old management consultant
   Peter "Buck" McGowan took over as new chief of the worldwide
   initiative for women's rights.
   [4]Enlarge Image McGowan 

   Head feminist "Buck" McGowan leads a march on Washington for women's
   rights.

   McGowan, who now oversees the group's day-to-day operations, said he
   "couldn't be happier" to bring his ambition, experience, and
   no-nonsense attitude to his new role as the nation's top feminist.

   "All the feminist movement needed to do was bring on someone who had
   the balls to do something about this glass ceiling business," said
   McGowan, who quickly closed the 23.5 percent gender wage gap by
   "making a few calls to the big boys upstairs." "In the world of gender
   identity and empowered female sexuality, it's all about who you know."

   McGowan, who was selected from a pool of roughly 150 million
   candidates, made eliminating sexual harassment his first priority
   before working on securing reproductive rights for women in all 50
   states, and promoting healthy body images through an influx of strong,
   independent female characters in TV, magazines, and film.

   "It's about time," McGowan said upon returning from a golf game with
   several "network honchos" in which he brokered a deal to bring a
   variety of women's sports to prime-time television. "These ladies
   should have brought me on years ago."

   McGowan claimed that one of the main reasons the movement enjoyed so
   little success in the past was that the previous management was often
   too timid and passive and should have been much more results-focused.

   "You can't waste time pussyfooting around with protests and getting
   all emotional about a bunch of irrelevant details," McGowan said. "If
   you want to enjoy equal rights, you have to have a real man-to-man
   chat with the people in charge until you can hammer out some more
   equitable custody laws."

   "And don't get me started on how disorganized and scatterbrained their
   old fundraising methods were," McGowan added. "Let's just say the
   movement never really had a head for numbers."

   After McGowan successfully appointed three of his best men to lead
   Smith College's women's studies department and called in some favors
   to a number of powerful board chairmen to triple the number of female
   CEOs in Fortune 500 companies, analysts predicted that the feminist
   movement could achieve all of McGowan's goals by as early as 2009.

   "With a charismatic, self-assured guy like Pete pulling the strings,
   we might even see a female elected president one of these days," said
   Nathan Roth, an analyst at the Cato Institute. "Finally, the feminist
   movement has a face that commands respect."

   McGowan, however, said he didn't get into the business of women's
   rights for the praise.

   "What these women were able to accomplish with the little manpower
   they had is very impressive," McGowan said. "I just bring a certain
   something to the table--I'm not sure what--that gave us that extra
   little push into complete female independence. I guess it just comes
   naturally."

   But despite his modesty, McGowan continues to garner praise from those
   closest to the cause.

   "The whole movement just seems more legitimate with Buck in charge,"
   leading feminist Gloria Steinem said at a gala dinner Friday. "His
   drive, focus, and determination are truly remarkable. Mr. McGowan is a
   man with a plan."

   Although he has not hinted at any future projects after all forms of
   gender discrimination are a thing of the past, McGowan has vehemently
   denied rumors that he will leave the feminist movement to head up the
   struggle for gay rights.

   "The wife would kill me if I took on any more hours," McGowan said.
   "I'm sure those fellows know how that goes."


   WELLTON, AZ--Henry Leighty, a 32-year-old Arizona native and insurance
   claims adjuster, reportedly had such a huge crush on his girlfriend,
   Stacy Tompkins, 29, that he just had to marry her in a small ceremony
   Sunday which he totally dreams about every night when he goes to bed.

   Insiders close to Leighty suggested that he probably wanted to marry
   her for, like, ever.
   [4]Enlarge Image Man Likes Woman So Much He Marries Her 

   Leighty and Tompkins probably went right home to smooch and tickle
   each other after this.

   "Stacy and I are so happy," said Leighty, who mailed dozens of
   embossed invitations with little birds and flowers on them months
   before the wedding to ensure no one would miss his extra-special
   afternoon of girl-kissing. "For our honeymoon, we're going to spend
   some time [Frenching] in Saint Lucia."

   Leighty's parents, David and Kathy, attended the ceremony, as did
   Leighty's two sisters, brother, and super-special someone, Tompkins,
   whom he adores so much he had to get a priest to make them husband and
   wife forever and ever--just like he always wanted. To honor the event,
   Leighty wore a tailored Armani tuxedo, hired a local string quartet to
   perform the traditional wedding march, and actually held his
   girlfriend's hand at least twice. Gross.

   According to Leighty, the couple began planning the wedding shortly
   after their engagement last June, when the lover boy finally admitted
   what everyone already knew: that he couldn't wait to spend the rest of
   his life with a girl.

   "We had been dating for five years, and it seemed like the perfect
   time," Leighty said, while everybody puked. "She's a really great
   person."

   After professing a bunch of sappy vows he probably actually meant,
   Leighty open-mouth kissed his bride in front of friends and family and
   nobody even tried to stop him.

   Immediately following the ceremony, the wedding party moved to the
   nearby Wellton Country Club, where the new Mr. and Mrs.
   Leighty--blech--joined their guests in a celebration of the couple's
   disgusting feelings for each other with food, dancing, and making-out.
   Witnesses say Leighty also hired a wedding photographer to take
   pictures that would last for all eternity so the groom could go home
   later and practice kissing with them.

   Best man Derek Heidel said he "couldn't be happier" for the couple,
   whom he first met during his undergraduate studies at the University
   of Arizona and apparently likes so much he should probably just marry
   both of them in some stupid three-way lovefest.

   "The ceremony was beautiful," said Heidel, who is either blind or
   retarded if he didn't notice all the sick touching going on. "I felt
   so honored to be standing next to Henry at this important time in his
   life. I know they'll have a long and happy marriage together."

    Leighty, who witnesses claim they saw writing "Mr. and Mrs. Leighty"
   all over their joint checking account forms, said he "can't imagine"
   his life without Stacy. "She's got such a wonderful sense of humor,"
   he said over and over as if anyone cared.

   Leighty went on to say something like, "Ooh, this is my wife whom I
   love. I love her so much I want to marry her again because I love her
   so much, I do, I really do." He totally said that, reporters at the
   event swear to God.

   Though the couple had initially planned to get married sometime this
   summer, the date was moved up to November because of Tompkin's
   mother's failing health. Despite some initial concerns that the couple
   would not be able to reschedule the event due to their hectic schedule
   of sitting in a tree and k-i-s-s-i-n-g, the two were able to
   successfully transition through the next phases of their
   courtship--love and marriage.

   In analyzing relationships similar to the newly wedded couple's,
   experts predict that, within four to six months, Leighty and Tompkins
   are most likely going to do it, probably resulting in a baby in a baby
   carriage.

   How gay.


   NEW YORK--Director Martin Scorsese, long praised as one of the
   greatest modern American filmmakers for his works Taxi Driver, Raging
   Bull, The Last Temptation Of Christ, and Goodfellas, is following up
   his recent string of critically acclaimed triumphs with The Entitled,
   a three-hour, unabashed plea for a Best Director Oscar that opens
   nationwide Friday.

   Scorsese has lost to almost every major American filmmaker in his
   career, including actor-director Kevin Costner, who went on to create
   Waterworld and The Postman.
   [4]Enlarge Image The Entitled 

   Scorsese also designed the poster for his latest Oscar effort.

   "I've been making pictures for 40 years," said the intense,
   fast-talking Scorsese in an excerpt from The Entitled, during which
   the Rolling Stones' "Gimme Shelter" can be heard in the background.
   "For 40 years, I've been making pictures. And I've always been
   fascinated with the struggles a man must endure when people don't
   appreciate him. People say I'm the best. I didn't say it, they did. I
   just do my work. But for years they've been talking and you know it.
   You do. I deserve that award, is all I'm saying."

   The film, produced, directed, and independently released by the
   five-time Academy Award nominee, is a bold departure from his
   signature style of rapid editing, kinetic camera movement, and
   intricately choreographed tracking shots, instead employing only a
   single camera on a stationary tripod, with virtually no editing
   besides brief opening and closing credits. Captivating narratives of
   moral decay and violent machismo were notably absent, as Scorsese
   focused on a a simple message of redemption and gratification he hoped
   would be "real easy for everyone to understand."

   "For years I did the little pictures about the types of people I grew
   up with," said a passionately gesturing Scorsese in another Entitled
   scene. "Then I did the prestige-y, historical stuff like Last
   Temptation and The Age Of Innocence because I related to the
   characters, you know, outsiders in repressive environments making
   fateful choices. Then I started making the big sweeping epics, like
   Kundun and The Aviator. I've made comedies and documentaries, even
   concert films. Ever heard of The Last Waltz? No? Okay. You should."

   Continued Scorsese, "What happens? Nothing. Nothing for the versatile
   visionary who lives and breathes pictures."
     Martin Scorsese

   "People say I'm the best. I didn't say it, they did. And you know it."
   Director Martin Scorsese

   Scorsese goes on to describe in meticulous detail individual scenes
   "that alone should have won the Oscar," including Travis Bickle posing
   with his guns in front of a mirror in Taxi Driver, the close-up of
   coffee cups at the Debonair Social Club in Raging Bull, and the
   pool-hall fight scene in Mean Streets. "Remember my scene in the back
   of the cab in Taxi Driver?" Scorsese said. "That was me. I was that
   guy. That was me. Everyone remembers that."

   "You already should have done right by me with Gangs Of New York," he
   said. "I handed you guys that one on a silver platter."

   Although Scorsese does away with his traditional ensemble cast in The
   Entitled, several of his past associates make brief appearances,
   including director and screenwriter Paul Schrader, friend and
   collaborator Jay Cocks, and film editor Thelma Schoonmaker.

   "There's Paul," said Scorsese as Schrader briefly tilted his head into
   the frame and waved. "He has his own directorial career and he still
   says I should get an Oscar. He should, too. None of us are above
   wanting a little recognition. We're not stuck up."

   "You want feel-good and heartwarming, right?" Scorsese said. "I can do
   that. Or I can do casual violence with no strings attached. You know I
   can. What else you want? Kung-fu wire-work? Mentally disabled guy?
   Boring Robert Redford-style fishing movie? Just tell me what to do,
   I'll do it. Done. End of story. Give me my Oscar and I'm out of here.
   Poof."

   Newsweek movie critic David Ansen called The Entitled Scorsese's "best
   shot" at a directing Oscar since his most recent loss to Clint
   Eastwood for Million Dollar Baby. "Filming in a soundstage in Burbank
   instead of on the streets of New York was a risk, but it will pay
   off," Ansen said. "As long as Spielberg doesn't come out with
   anything, I'd say this is Scorsese's year."

   Film-industry insiders said that The Entitled was already being talked
   about as the frontrunner for the Golden Globes, the Palme d'Or,
   Cannes, and Tribeca Film Festival honors, and an Oscar for Best
   Adapted Screenplay.


   PHOENIX, AZ--In what insiders say is an attempt to revitalize his
   flagging campaign and convince voters that he is still a
   straight-talking maverick, Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) announced Sunday
   that he will subject himself to the same mental torment and physical
   abuse he endured nearly 40 years ago at the same Vietnamese camp where
   he was once held as a prisoner of war.
   [4]Enlarge Image McCain To 

   The Hanoi Hilton, which will be reopened this weekend to re-imprison
   Sen. McCain.

   "On Saturday at approximately 2:40 a.m.  I will fly over the capital
   city of Hanoi and have my plane's right wing blown off by a Russian
   missile," said McCain, adding that the force of the ejection from an
   aging A-4 Skyhawk should render him unconscious and break both of his
   arms and "preferably [his] right leg." "I will then be taken to a bug-
   and rat-infested cell where, with both nobility and grace, I will
   suffer the worst forms of human indignities."

   McCain, once considered a shoo-in for the Republican presidential
   nomination, insisted that his upcoming stay at the Hanoi torture
   facility was simply a late addition to a previously planned trip to
   Southeast Asia, and has nothing to do with his faltering campaign.

   But a source close to the campaign said the senator's decision to
   revisit his indescribable degradation at the hands of the Viet Cong
   was prompted by a desire to "get back to his roots," and "reconnect
   with the struggles that defined him as a leader."

   "The fact is, Sen. McCain feels that he's changed somehow from the
   independent, eternally haunted outsider that he once was," the source
   said. "He hopes that revisiting the extraordinary horrors he endured
   so many years ago will reinstill in him the sense of purpose and
   commitment he is so respected for. And what better way to reignite the
   political fire within than by having sharpened rods of bamboo jammed
   under his fingernails?"
     McCain

   "With both nobility and grace, I will suffer the worst forms of human
   indignities."

   According to campaign documents released to the media, the visit will
   cost more than $10 million, most of which will go toward acquiring a
   Grushin S-75 surface-to-air missile, renovating McCain's cell to its
   exact 1970s-era condition, paying medical personnel to provide
   inefficient and cruel treatment, and hiring Vietnamese citizens to act
   as the Viet Cong.

   "Just when you think McCain is down and out, he announces the most
   brilliant move we've seen in American politics in a generation," ABC
   political correspondent George Stephanopoulos said. "With [Rudolph]
   Giuliani beating him in the polls and [Mitt] Romney outpacing him in
   fundraising, McCain's only remaining advantage is that he successfully
   withstood atrocities beyond our comprehension. And to subject himself
   to those same unspeakable acts of physical violence at the age of 68
   should dispel any doubt among voters that he's too old to be in the
   White House."

   Stephanopoulos added that McCain must be careful not to return from
   Southeast Asia too soon before the primaries, or his act of courage,
   integrity, and determination may fade from the memory of American
   voters.

   "This trip is a huge political gamble," Washington Post columnist E.J.
   Dionne, Jr. wrote Tuesday. "Still, being forced to stay awake for six
   days as your captors douse you with water and feed you rotting food
   sounds a lot more convincing than John Kerry's campaign strategy of
   simply talking about his military experience."

   According to recent polls, a majority of Americans say McCain's
   announcement has made them reconsider his candidacy.

   "I've always admired McCain, but he's disappointed me in recent
   months," Cincinnati resident Ben Krepps, 33, said. "After so many
   years in the political mainstream, he's gone soft. Maybe some long,
   cruel nights are exactly what he needs to get his head back into this
   race."

   Others, however, including unaffiliated Republican consultant David
   Winston, argue that McCain's trip will only hurt his presidential
   chances.

   "In John McCain's attempt to find the old John McCain, he is actually
   just solidifying his position as the new, more pandering John McCain,"
   Winston said. "Yes, the old John McCain withstood seemingly endless
   torture, and people respected that. But a second time around? It just
   looks desperate."

   With McCain's drastic move sending shock waves through the political
   world, Sens. Hillary Clinton (D-NY) and Barack Obama (D-IL) both
   announced plans to send themselves back to their respective Ivy League
   law schools to reenroll in their most challenging courses.


   NEW YORK--Saying he could no longer stand idly by while a vital part
   of American culture is lost forever, activist and Broadway producer
   Mel Brooks has founded a private nonprofit organization dedicated to
   preserving the word "schmuck."
   [4]Enlarge Image Mel Brooks 

   An emotional Brooks stopped short of kvetching at a schmuck fundraiser
   Monday.

   "Schmuck is dying," a sober Brooks said during a 2,000-person rally
   held in his hometown of Williamsburg, Brooklyn Monday. "For many of
   us, saying 'schmuck' is a way of life. Yet when I walk down the street
   and see people behaving in foolish, pathetic, or otherwise schmucky
   ways, I hear only the words 'prick' and 'douche bag.' I just shake my
   head and think, 'I don't want to live in a world like this.'"

   The nonprofit, Schmucks For Schmuck, has compiled schmuck-related data
   from the past 80 years and conducted its own independent research on
   contemporary "schmuck" usage. According to Brooks, the statistics are
   frightening: Utterances of the word "schmuck" have declined every year
   since its peak in 1951, and in 2006, the word was spoken a mere 28
   times--17 of these times by Brooks himself. The study indicates that
   today, when faced with a situation in which one can use a targeted or
   self-deprecating insult to convey a general feeling of disgust, people
   are 50 times more likely to use the word "jerk" than "schmuck," 100
   times more likely to use "dick," and 15,000 times more likely to use
   "fucking asshole."

   Perhaps more startling, only 23 percent of men know what schmuck
   means, and only 1.2 percent of these men are under the age of 78. If
   such trends continue, Brooks estimates that by 2011, such lesser-used
   terms as "imbecile," "dummy," "schlub," and "contemptible
   ne'er-do-well" will all surpass schmuck, which is projected to
   completely disappear by the year 2020 or whenever Brooks dies.

   "We must save this word!" Brooks said to thunderous applause as those
   in attendance began chanting "Schmuck! Schmuck! Schmuck!" "How will we
   be able to charmingly describe someone who acts in an inappropriate
   manner? Especially given the tragic loss of the word 'schmegeggie' in
   2001. So I urge you: Tonight, when you get home, please, call up your
   family, your friends, your loved ones, and tell them they're a bunch
   of schmucks."
   [5]Enlarge Image Activists 

   Hundreds turned out at a Boca Raton, FL demonstration to show their
   support for the dying word.

   "I've never told anyone this before," Brooks added, choking back
   tears, "but my father was a schmuck."

   The foundation has already raised more than $20 million, thanks to
   donations from supporters such as Jackie Mason, Albert Brooks, the
   Schtupp Institute, Sen. Russ Feingold (D-WI), and the Henny Youngman
   Endowment for the Preservation of Schmekel. The money will go toward
   projects aimed at reintegrating "schmuck" into the English lexicon,
   including billboards and flyers plastered with the word "schmuck," the
   upcoming 5K Schlep for Schmuck Awareness, and a new Mel Brooks film.

   "The world cannot afford to lose this valuable and versatile word,"
   Brooks told reporters during a charity auction in Manhattan's Upper
   West Side Tuesday, where attendees bid for the chance to have a
   private lunch with Brooks and repeatedly call him a schmuck. "You can
   be a poor schmuck, a lazy schmuck, a dumb schmuck, or just a plain old
   schmuck. A group of people can be collectively referred to as
   schmucks. You can call someone a schmuck, and you can be called a
   schmuck. You can even call yourself a schmuck."

   "Plus, it's just so fun to say," Brooks added. "Schmuck."

   Many of the foundation's volunteers say they share Brooks' passion for
   the word "schmuck," as well as his outrage that it is slowly
   disappearing from everyday use. They claim that if they do not act
   now, the trend could create a snowball effect.

   "Today it's schmuck, tomorrow it might be toochis," said SFS volunteer
   Harry Steinbergmann, 82. "What's next, schlemiel? Putz? Schlimazel?"

   Steinbergmann went on to classify this scenario as farcockteh.

   Brooks will be appearing at Brooklyn's Francis Scott Key Junior High
   on Nov. 12 to give an informal lecture about his experiences using the
   word "schmuck," and build grassroots support among a key group of
   young Americans by explaining that "schmuck" is a Yiddish term for the
   foreskin on the head of a penis. In addition, he has hinted at the
   possibility of a reunion with longtime comedy partner Gene Wilder,
   during which the two will call each other schmucks.


   Dozens of eyewitness reports indicated that former vice president Al
   Gore deliberately attempted to raise the earth's temperature in order
   to boost box office receipts for An Inconvenient Truth, his
   documentary film about global warming that was released in May.
   [4]Enlarge Image Al Gore R 

   DESPERATE MEASURES
   Former vice president Al Gore takes a flamethrower to the Ross Ice
   Shelf in Antarctica to boost weekend ticket sales for An Inconvenient
   Truth.

   "We have accounts from concerned citizens that Mr. Gore purchased a
   Cadillac Escalade SUV several months before [his film] opened in
   theaters," said Kimberly Blume, spokeswoman for the California-based
   environmental group Friends Of The Earth. "Not only did Mr. Gore use
   his new gas-guzzler to make short trips to the grocery store, he also
   left the vehicle running 24 hours a day in the driveway of his
   Tennessee home with the air-conditioning on full-blast."

   In the weeks following the film's release, witnesses reported
   additional sightings of Gore engaging in activities such as
   discharging can after can of 1980s-era, CFC-laden aerosol into the
   air, and single-handedly clear-cutting over 6,000 acres of Amazon rain
   forest.

   Gore is also rumored to have set a four-acre tire fire outside Akron,
   OH, and ordered his Secret Service detail to shoot on sight anyone who
   attempts to put it out.

   "It's sad to see a man we thought was a passionate defender of the
   environment despoiling it for his own monetary gain," Blume said.

   Blume said that she and many environmentalists had momentarily
   expressed relief in late November when Gore appeared to cease his
   months-long practice of dismantling old refrigerators in order to
   release ozone-destroying freon into the atmosphere. Blume soon
   learned, however, that Gore had resumed the activity in Antarctica,
   where the earth's ozone layer is most fragile.

   Environmental groups have called for the federal government to step in
   and put a stop to Gore's actions, but officials say they do not have
   the power to stop him.

   "There is no legal recourse anyone can take against the former vice
   president," Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Stephen L.
   Johnson said. "Mr. Gore is well within the emissions standards set by
   the current administration."

   By year's end, Gore failed to slow his assault on the planet's
   delicately balanced climate systems. Satellite surveillance revealed
   what many believe to be a snowshoed Gore jumping up and down on an ice
   shelf in Greenland, chainsawing glaciers in the Alaskan wild, and
   urinating in the Gulf Stream waters off the coast of Newfoundland.


   MIDDLE EAST--With the Iraq war in its fifth year, the war in
   Afghanistan in its sixth, and  conflict between Israel and the rest of
   the region continuing unabated for more than half a century,
   intelligence sources are warning that a new wave of violence in the
   Middle East may soon blah blah blah, etc. etc., you know the rest.
   [4]Enlarge Image Middle East 

   Yet another act of violence in response to something else terrible
   that occurred in, oh, let's say Basra.

   "Tensions in the region are extremely high," said U.S. Ambassador to
   Iraq Ryan Crocker, who added the same old same old while answering
   reporters' questions. "We're disappointed by the events of the last
   few months, but we're confident that we're about to [yakety yakety
   yak]."

   The U.N. has issued a strongly worded whatever denouncing someone or
   something presumably having to do with the vicious explosive things
   that raged across this, or shattered the predawn calm of that, or
   ripped suddenly through the other, killing umpteen innocent civilians
   in a Jerusalem bus or Beirut discotheque or Fallujah mosque or
   whatever it was this time.
   [5]Enlarge Image Middle East jump 

   Either a car bomb killed people or a car hit a roadside bomb, killing
   people.

   In the aftermath of a whole series of incidents, there have also been
   troubling reports of just fill in the blanks. Middle East experts say
   the still somehow worsening situation has inflamed age-old sectarian
   tensions between the Sunnis, Shiites, Semites, Kurds, Turks, Saudis,
   Persians, Wahhabis, radicals, extremists, Baathists, mullahs, clerics,
   et al, which is likely to lead to more gurgle-gurgle over the coming
   weeks and months.

   A certain number of U.S. troops were also killed somewhere in some
   tragic fashion, while a much greater number were wounded. Meanwhile,
   impoverished or oppressed supporters of whichever faction carried out
   the attack or ambush probably celebrated, angering an angry U.S.
   public that is already angry. Locals are calling for an investigation
   into excessive force or outright corruption by military or political
   officials on one of the 15 sides of the various conflicts, although
   the implicated party has categorically denied wrongdoing, just like
   they always do, without fail, every time this happens, which is daily,
   it seems.

   And in Afghanistan, the Taliban.

   In Israel, Palestinians and Israelis escalated tensions and so on and
   so on ad infinitum, ad eternum, and some say, ad absurdum, and
   although Hamas released a statement condemning Israeli forces for the
   resulting civilian deaths, Israeli officials say the teens were armed
   with rocket launchers, though it doesn't really matter.

   Also, Ahmadinejad, Iran's nuclear program, bin Laden at large, Moqtada
   al-Sadr, Moqtada al-Sadr's militia, Fallujah, renegade mullahs,
   embedded and/or beheaded journalists, oil revenues, stockpiles of
   former Soviet armaments, freedom, racism, Halliburton, women's role in
   Islamic society, the Quran, withdrawing troops, economic disparities,
   Sikhs, Pakistanis, oil, rebuilding, stories of hope, the Saudi royal
   family, the Holy Land, insurgents, and the tragedy of Sept. 11th.

   In an attempt to increase public support of whatever the fuck it is he
   thinks he's doing, President Bush trotted out the same old whoop-de-do
   you've heard over and over at a solemn-yet-resolute speech attended by
   soldiers, or religious leaders, or firemen, or some mix of
   ethnic-looking people from one of those countries.

   "We have to give this plan time to wop bop a loo bop, a wop bam boom,
   ah ah ting tang walla walla bing bang," President Bush may as well
   have said. "May God [help/bless/save] the United States of America."


   WASHINGTON, DC--Two weeks after the hourly federal minimum wage was
   raised from $5.15 to $5.85, families across the country were still
   celebrating the historic increase by running their electric fans,
   buying coveted half-gallons of milk, and, like Charice Williams of
   Shreveport, LA, purchasing name-brand ketchup to share with loved
   ones.
   [4]Enlarge Image Minimum Wage 

   "I can't remember the last time I could afford Hunt's," said the
   41-year-old mother of six, who for more than a decade has purchased
   ValuTime ketchup to garnish everything from Hamburger Helper to Tuna
   Helper. "Another couple dozen wage increases like this, and we'll be
   practically swimming in Heinz. Or at least my grandchildren will."

   Whether buying national-brand condiments, allowing themselves two
   additional squares of toilet paper, or paying for a few more minutes
   of drying time at the laundromat, the estimated 13 million Americans
   who subsist on minimum wages are getting a taste of the good life.
   Jaime Santiago of Las Cruces, NM was working a double shift at a
   24-hour car wash Tuesday night, but still managed to celebrate by
   calling home collect during his break--and, for the first time in
   years, his wife was able to accept the charges.
   [5]Enlarge Image Worker 

   If this Sarasota, FL woman works 60 hours a week, she could be looking
   at a five-digit gross income by year's end.

   "I told her I had a surprise for the family when I got home, and I
   wasn't kidding: chewable vitamins for the kids," said Santiago, 29.
   "On Sunday, I'm going to surprise them again with a nice bus ride out
   to Wal-Mart to walk around a little. Then I'm going to pull back for a
   while. Indulgences like these are all the more special when they're
   just occasional."

   Many minimum-wage earners, like 38-year-old Greg Hubbard, said the
   increase--the first of its kind since 1997--provides a sense of
   security at a time when the price of gas, housing, consumer goods,
   food, utilities, and health insurance premiums are at their highest
   levels in decades.
     Nancy Pelosi

   'America, add one more quarter-scoop of sugar to your Kool-Aid and
   treat yourself to a new pair of socks--the minimum-wage hike has
   finally arrived.'

   House Speaker Nancy Pelosi

   "To think that only 10 years ago my salary was jacked up to $5.15 an
   hour, and now, in 2007, I'm making almost $6 an hour," said Hubbard,
   who runs the sluicer at the Tyson Foods chicken processing plant in
   Corydon, IN. "Only in America."

   In Utica, NY, hotel maid Ernestine Caldwell has constantly worried
   about her husband's medical expenses since he was diagnosed with
   Alzheimer's disease earlier this year and forced to quit his job. But
   now that she'll be earning nearly $12,000 a year, Caldwell, 62, said
   she'll be able to pay off 1/64th of his medical expenses and finally
   start planning for her retirement by investing in higher-yield
   scratch-ticket games offered by the New York Lottery.

   "For years, I've had to play 'Loose Change' or 'Straight 8's' while
   the $20 'Win for Life Spectacular' game has been out of reach,"
   Caldwell said. "With this added income, though, I'll really be able to
   take advantage of all 15 ways to win. My husband deserves the best
   possible care."

   Congressional Democrats who pushed for the increase said the
   additional $28 a week will come as a "godsend" to those living below
   the poverty line and provide new lines of tax revenue that could
   perhaps one day help pay off the resurgent federal deficit.

   "Today, the nation's working poor are 70 cents closer to the American
   dream," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said at a Capitol press conference.
   "And don't forget the economic stimulus this wage increase will
   provide-- already we hear that discount stores nationwide are selling
   out their stocks of flip-flops and the stiffer kind of paper plates."

   Yet Pelosi urged minimum-wage earners to be cautious in spending their
   windfall, as a raise of this magnitude only comes "once in a
   lifetime."


   MILWAUKEE--In what Major League Baseball officials are calling a "long
   overdue correction of a gross oversight," Commissioner Bud Selig
   announced Tuesday the discovery that Hall of Famer Hank Aaron had in
   fact accumulated 50 previously unaccounted-for home runs during his
   illustrious 22-year baseball career, bringing his once record total of
   755 to an even higher 805 and putting the all-time home-run record
   perhaps forever out of reach.
   [4]Enlarge Image MLB Finds Lost 

   Hank Aaron hits one of the 12 home runs he tallied during the 1973-1/2
   season.

   "Hank Aaron is a hero, an excellent man, and a great ambassador for
   the game of baseball," Selig said during a press conference to
   announce the findings. "We're proud to have finally set things right,
   hopefully once and for all. And I have to tell you, some of the home
   runs that we discovered were just monster shots. One was hit off of
   [Pittsburgh Pirates pitcher] Harvey Haddix that went 576 feet, and
   Hank wasn't even that big of a guy. Just naturally strong and gifted,
   I guess."

   Haddix was unavailable for comment, as he passed away in 1994.

   According to Selig, a committee of sports journalists and baseball
   historians was set up during the off-season to investigate, with
   Selig's oversight, whether there was any substance to a rumor that
   began circulating last summer concerning Aaron having hit more
   homeruns than those credited to him in the record books. Though Selig
   said he couldn't recall the date the committee was established, he
   believes it was in or around the time he approved the San Francisco
   Giants' highly publicized signing of Barry Zito.

   The committee's 30-page report points out several key factors that
   combined to increase Aaron's home run total. For example, in 1958,
   home runs hit during both the first week of spring training and those
   hit in pre-game batting practice during away games in the third week
   of August were added to a player's career numbers. In addition, home
   runs hit during the 1971 All-Star Game should have been tallied.

   Aaron, coincidentally, did hit a home run in that game.

   "We are here today to the right the wrongs," Selig said. "This is
   America's national pastime, and its players, fans, and all citizens
   deserve to have a record book in which they can take great pride. So
   if we didn't count Hank Aaron's five-homer outing during 1964's famous
   'Empty Stadium' game, I wouldn't be able to live with myself."

   Furthermore, the report continued, a third of the home runs hit by
   players who participated in the television series Home Run Derby, a
   show on which Aaron appeared several times, should have been counted.
   In addition, during the second half of the 1962 season, balls that
   bounced over the outfield fence should have been counted as home runs,
   and foul balls that were hit behind the batter but cleared the netting
   intended to protect fans seated behind home plate were also home runs.
   That being the case, league scorekeepers now say Aaron had his best
   year in 1962, hitting 65 home runs--20 more than originally thought.

   Though there has been some negative reaction towards the announcement
   of Aaron's new record, mostly from fans in northern California, the
   news has been received very well nationwide.

   "This is the best thing that has happened to baseball in years," said
   New York resident Tom Plaitano, 63. "I remember watching Hank Aaron as
   a kid, and even though I don't recall a time when all home runs hit
   off Sandy Koufax counted for two, I don't really care. This decision
   just makes sense to me."

   "The number 805 will go down as the most prestigious number in
   sports," said Selig, adding that there is a strong possibility still
   more of Aaron's home runs could come to the surface during this
   season, and maybe even the next several seasons to come. "It's not out
   of the question that Hank could have, say, 900 home runs by the time
   our investigation is all said and done."

   "Either way, the all-time home-run record couldn't be held by a more
   dignified and honorable man," Selig added.

   The committee's report has caused quite a shakeup to the list of
   baseball's all-time home-run leaders. Aaron, while keeping his record,
   is not even the biggest benefactor of the findings; as of now Aaron is
   first with 805, Willie Mays has jumped to second with 800, Frank
   Robinson is third with 798, Harmon Killebrew is fourth with 797, and
   Reggie Jackson, Mickey Mantle, Ernie Banks, Ted Williams, and Willie
   McCovey are tied for fifth at 796.

   According to Selig, early results of another investigation may net
   Babe Ruth as many as 74 additional home runs, Mike Schmidt an
   estimated 124, and Ken Griffey Jr. a possible 200, while players such
   as Mark McGwire, Sammy Sosa, Rafael Palmeiro, and Barry Bonds will
   probably be knocked even further down the list.


   SIOUX FALLS, SD--Managers of an area International House of Pancakes
   discovered 95 comment cards nailed to its front door Sunday, which
   were later identified as the work of local resident Ronald Lyman, a
   53-year-old contractor and onetime regular customer who is calling for
   wide-scale reform of the venerable chain.
   [4]Enlarge Image Modern Day Martin Luther 

   The self-styled pancake reformer decries IHOP indulgences such as
   whipped toppings.

   "IHOP has grown weak on powdered sugar and fruity garnishes, forsaking
   the righteousness of its original rib-sticking mission," said Lyman,
   who nailed his 95 comments to the door shortly before the morning
   brunch rush, when they would receive maximum exposure. "This house is
   no longer a house of pancakes--it is a house of lies."

   Lyman's 95 cards assail IHOP for what he perceives to be an "unholy
   alliance" of the sweet and the savory, a dangerously narrowing
   blueberry-to-batter ratio, hard-to-open butter packets, and an
   increasingly tall short stack. Fifteen cards alone attack the
   excessive breadth of syrup selection.

   "IHOP is about pancakes, not syrups," card 41 reads. "No pancake can
   exist drowned in a pool of lingonberry. No man who comes hungry can
   leave happy on artificial orange-flavored goo."

   Lyman said that his pancake fundamentalism is based on "the trinity of
   griddle-fried batter, butter, and maple syrup, as directed by our
   breakfast elders more than two score years ago." His beliefs were
   forged by years of increasing dissatisfaction with the
   "internationalist" influence within IHOP, which he said stresses
   flavor over substance.
     Modern Day IHOP Logo

   "The course of my life changed last week when a waitress dropped a
   tray and I was struck with hot coffee," Lyman said. "As I wiped my
   eyes and opened them, suddenly I became aware of the full extent of
   the corruption. Sweet crepes mingling with egg runoff. The sickening
   decadence of Belgian waffles. A waitstaff more concerned with lining
   their pockets with tips than with dedicating their lives to service. I
   stormed from the wicked place without settling my bill, finally
   realizing what I must do: devote my life to bringing down the House of
   Pancakes. To bring it down, then build it anew in righteousness and
   customer satisfaction."

   IHOP manager Dennis Ryskowski said that he has tried to read some of
   Lyman's comments during his breaks, but has so far only made it to
   card 26, "On the Blankets of Pigs."

   "We welcome all customer suggestions and feedback," Ryskowski said.
   "That's why we provide the comment cards. I do, however, wish Mr.
   Lyman had simply placed his in the box by the host station instead."

   Several customers who had come to the restaurant after bars closed
   Sunday night agreed with Lyman's stand, saying they, too, often feel
   disconnected from the IHOP experience.

   "I really like what he has to say about returning to the basics,"
   customer Kelly Grabler said. "Sometimes you just want a nice fat stack
   of pancakes, but you end up overwhelmed by the choices. Lots of the
   stuff isn't even breakfast. An IHOP meal should be a straightforward
   relationship between an individual and some pancakes."

   Card 63 perhaps most eloquently summarizes Lyman's condemnatory
   stance.

   "These steep and serene blue roofs, which arc to the heavens, in truth
   house corrupt souls who once sought succor in a simple pancake, but
   have now succumbed to the temptation of caramel cheesecakes and Caesar
   salads," Lyman wrote. "Only by returning to its hearty breakfast roots
   can IHOP save itself and its customers."

   Lyman suggested that, should his recommended changes not be
   instituted, he will have no choice but to break with the restaurant
   and start his own International House of Pancakes, Reformed (IHOPR)
   off I-229 by the airport.


   NEW YORK--A feature on the New York Times' website that lists the
   stories most e-mailed by readers is destroying morale and escalating
   tensions among the once-dignified and professional Times staff,
   sources within the newspaper of record said Tuesday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Most Emailed 

   The New York Times office building, which used to house some of the
   most respected journalists in America.

   This week's most frequently e-mailed story, titled "In Manhattan, Even
   Felines Have Therapists," which detailed the growing phenomenon of
   clinical depression among indoor urban cats, provoked a fresh round of
   envy and dismay among reporters still stinging from last week's top
   article, "Do You Really Have Time For Your Time-Share?".

   "Your reputation is everything here at the Times, and if you want get
   known, you've got to deliver what readers want: differences between
   men and women, and photos of cats," national political reporter Adam
   Nagourney said. "I suppose I could be most e-mailed, too, if I sat in
   front of my computer all day making up cutesy names for government
   officials, like some redheaded Wednesday and Saturday columnists I
   know."

   Along with most of his Times colleagues, Nagourney is convinced that
   online readers instinctively overlook harder news for the eye-catching
   Most E-Mailed box, making the pressure to craft articles with those
   magical "click and send" qualities that much more intense.

   Executive editor Bill Keller said he believes that the Most E-Mailed
   list is causing "troubling" changes in the Times' editorial focus, as
   reporters increasingly neglect less attractive assignments.

   "I've always encouraged our journalists to follow their instincts,"
   Keller said. "But now I'm considering a more hands-on approach,
   especially since I've received no fewer than four 800-word pieces on
   'man dates' in the past week alone."

   According to Times insiders, nearly two dozen staffers, including four
   Pulitzer Prize winners and Baghdad correspondent John Burns, have
   requested transfers to the Times' Home & Garden and Travel desks.

   Nagourney, currently stuck covering Barack Obama's presidential
   campaign in Minnesota, said he's been trying to make his stories more
   e-mail-friendly. But so far, success has eluded him.

   "I thought my Elizabeth Edwards breast cancer article the other week
   had a great chance, as it was at the intersection of politics, health,
   death, and family--and had the word 'breast' in the headline--but it
   didn't even make the top 10," Nagourney said. "Whatever."
     Most E Mailed Krugman

   "I'll write anything--do anything--to get on that list each week. I
   don't care what it takes."
   Times columnist Paul Krugman

   White House correspondent David Sanger recalled his anger last month
   after seeing New York Times publisher Arthur Sulzberger, Jr.
   compliment a first-year reporter who had gotten two stories on the
   Most E-Mailed list despite only having worked at the paper part-time
   for three months.

   "I know I write some boring stuff, but I'm forced to: It's my job,"
   Sanger said. "I've been here for almost 25 years, and Sulzberger
   hasn't said that many words to me the whole time."

   Restaurant critic and Most E-Mailed list darling Frank Bruni dismissed
   the inter-office grousing, saying, "Some people have it, some people
   never will." Bruni's work topped the Most E-Mailed list eight times in
   the past year.

   Other mainstays of the Most E-mailed List, such as columnist Frank
   Rich, experience the stress of having to maintain their success every
   week. While there are definite perks, such as sharing a lunch table
   with other widely e-mailed columnists, like Paul Krugman and Thomas
   Friedman, Rich said that the "once laid-back and carefree" working
   environment of the Times' midtown Manhattan offices has been replaced
   with suspicion and backbiting.

   "Yesterday I was working in my cubicle, and I could hear some
   reporters at the water cooler a few feet away talking in stage
   whispers about how I was 'obviously' getting my friends to e-mail my
   columns around to artificially inflate their ranking, and it was very
   upsetting," Rich said. "Sure, some of my friends may have e-mailed
   them, but that's because they honestly liked them and people have the
   right to do that."

   Columnist Nicholas Kristof, a Pulitzer Prize-winning former editor who
   has covered Asia and Africa for the Times, claimed not to be aware
   that his work frequently appears on the Most E-Mailed list, saying he
   "never so much as glances" at it.

   "Who cares--lists are stupid and arbitrary," Kristof said. "Only
   shallow morons pay attention to them. As if an article is inherently
   better just because more people happen to read it. This isn't a
   popularity contest."

   Kristof returned Thursday from the Sudan after a six-week-long
   investigation of the plight of displaced house cats in the
   genocide-ridden Darfur region. His findings will be published in next
   Sunday's New York Times Magazine.


   MIAMI--South Florida residents were overcome with fear, confusion, and
   an unnerving sense of dread Tuesday when they learned that an
   unidentified hurricane is heading for their area--its origin
   uncertain, its intentions unclear, and perhaps most frightening, its
   name unknown.
   [4]Enlarge Image Nameless Hurricane 

   The vacant eye of the unnamed storm fixes its baleful stare on the
   Florida peninsula.

   "Who is this hurricane?" said Miami resident Beverly Motolla, just one
   of hundreds of thousands of citizens struggling to put a human face on
   this impending tragedy. "Why is it here? What does it want from us?"

   Such questions remain agonizingly unanswered, as the anonymous storm
   front shows no signs of slowing down or divulging its background.
   Lacking any reliable information on the character traits of the
   popularly dubbed "Hurricane That Shall Not Be Named," thousands have
   fled the area, hoping to escape its destructive winds, driving rain,
   and chilling impersonality.

   "If this hurricane were a Wilma or a Frank, or even a Rebekah, I'd at
   least know what to expect--a storm system with a low pressure center,
   sustained winds above 119 miles per hour, high gusts, and severe
   inland flooding," said Stewart Tomlinson, a Miami-area police officer
   who plans to drive his family north to Georgia on Wednesday. "But I
   don't even know if this hurricane is a boy or a girl. And frankly,
   that scares me."

   "I don't want this...thing...coming anywhere near me or my family,"
   Tomlinson added.
   [5]Enlarge Image Nameless Hurricane Jump 

   Whatever the coming storm's true name, Floridians, like these
   evacuating Pompano Beach residents, are praying it will not exceed in
   severity the infamous Hurricane !!! of 1983.

   Those who have decided to stay home and brave the imminent storm have
   reported incidents of raindrops rapping on their windowpanes with a
   sinister, relentless urgency; drops in barometric pressure so sudden
   they could freeze a man's soul; and, in the words of one Coral Springs
   body shop owner, "the kind of heartless devastation that could only be
   wreaked by an unfeeling tropical cyclone that doesn't even have the
   decency to introduce itself."

   "I heard that the hurricane killed 620 Guatemalans last week in cold
   blood," Mark Barclay of Sweetwater said. "And that it didn't even
   care."

   Though the hurricane is predicted to cause widespread destruction,
   many say it brings something even more dangerous than a 10-foot storm
   tide and rapidly contracting eyewall: the element of the unknown.

   "You can tell a lot about a hurricane by its name--that's why they
   have names," Surfside resident Brenda Harrison said. "Mitch, strong
   and unpredictable. Katrina, devious and vengeful. Bob, good guy, just
   passing through. But this hurricane could be anything. It could be a
   gentle mist, or it could be the worst natural disaster in the history
   of mankind. It could strike anytime, and it could be anywhere...even
   right behind you. Also, what if it doesn't even have an eye?"
     Nameless Hurricane Pullquot

   "For the love of Jesus, at least just give us a first initial."

   Kimberly Mellor,
   Opa-locka, FL

   "When the big hurricane struck Florida in 1998, I was scared until I
   found out its name was Earl," Panama City, FL citizen Sam Hewer said.
   "I went to high school with a guy named Earl. He was a little wild,
   but ultimately harmless. In fact, we used to make fun of him. So when
   the storm hit and destroyed my house, it didn't seem so bad. It was
   like, 'Oh, there goes Earl again.'"

   As the storm approaches the coast, citizens have been speculating as
   to its identity. Many claim that the hurricane's erratic changes in
   course and spiral rainbands make it seem like a Dave. Still others
   suspect that it might be Hurricane Andrew in disguise, returning to
   finish what it started in 1992.

   Also on Tuesday, the National Weather Service issued a statement in
   which it rejected calls to name the hurricane, describing such an
   action as "impossible."

   "We've monitored, studied, and examined this hurricane in the two
   weeks since it appeared seemingly out of nowhere on our radar, and it
   simply has no name," NWS acting director Mary Glackin said. "If it had
   one, we'd be using it. It's not like we can just make up a name."

   When asked if he could identify the storm, veteran WTVJ meteorologist
   Cal Valencia threw back his head and laughed scornfully.

   "Fools! Be glad you don't know this hurricane's true name!" Valencia
   said. "It may be the sole mercy we are shown during this coming
   ordeal. Savor it! For in a day's time, you will be pining for your
   lost ignorance as a drowning man for oxygen."

   One Miami-Dade citizen, however, has decided to take matters into his
   own hands.

   "For my wife and children's sake, I've decided to tell them it's named
   Bradley," said Jackson Graham, a local carpenter who claims he cannot
   bear to tell his family the horrible truth. "Hurricane Bradley. God, I
   hope that doesn't make it angrier."


   HOUSTON--NASA administrator Michael Griffin announced during a press
   conference Tuesday that the space agency is launching an ambitious
   mission to make Houston's Johnson Space Center wireless-Internet
   capable within one decade.
   [4]Enlarge Image Mission Control Center 

   Frustrated Mission Control Center staff experience yet another dial-up
   disconnection while browsing the web Tuesday.

   "We are entering a new era for NASA," Griffin said during a slide show
   for reporters showing conceptual illustrations of a wireless modem
   that would be used in all of the agency's offices and laboratories
   that use personal computers. "We are not content to rest on our
   laurels. It may seem like an impossible task, but if we commit all of
   our focus, technology, and resources, we can get Wi-Fi into NASA's
   offices and research labs within our generation."

   Griffin was confident that NASA's estimated $655 million plan to
   install a wireless broadband router by 2017 could reap huge benefits
   for the entire space agency.

   "In a few short years, all NASA employees will be able to check their
   e-mail throughout the complex, even in the cafeteria," Griffin said.

   According to agency officials, accessing the Internet has been an
   ongoing struggle for NASA. Still relying on a single dial-up modem,
   employees nevertheless continue to get disconnected from the Internet
   whenever the Johnson Space Center receives an incoming call or someone
   picks up the phone to dial out. In 2005, NASA attempted to upgrade
   from dial-up to DSL, but the program was aborted when engineers were
   unable to get the Ethernet hub to function.

   While the building that houses the public affairs office can currently
   pick up a weak Wi-Fi signal from a Starbucks across the street, the
   Johnson Space Center as a whole is far from being the "giant Wi-Fi
   hotspot" Griffin envisions.

   "If NASA is to fulfill its vision of a working environment of today,
   we will need to develop existing technologies to ensure Internet
   connectivity can be sustained without employees becoming entangled in
   cords," Griffin said.
   [5]Enlarge Image Commanders 

   Commanders Scott Dreisen and Alan Wittmer explore a Houston-area Best
   Buy for possible signs of wireless routers in NASA's heroic first
   steps into the Wi-Fi Age.

   If federal funding is approved, NASA will begin its search for
   wireless capability by sending a series of robotic probes into the
   depths of the Johnson Space Center, exploring the surfaces of desks
   and tables to search for the most viable modem base. Once the probes
   have photographed the area, the information they have gathered will be
   transmitted back to Houston's Mission Control Center for analysis.

   Griffin said that the agency has also recruited seven information
   technology specialists from some of the nation's top white-collar
   regional workplaces. The seven mission specialists in the newly dubbed
   "Internet Explorer" program are being rigorously trained to install
   the theoretical wireless devices in an Earth-gravity environment in
   which they could encounter potentially arduous conditions such as poor
   air ventilation and lifeless workscapes.

   Since spring, NASA has also conducted some preliminary, small-scale
   reconnaissance missions to a Houston-area Best Buy, where crews
   conducted research and compared prices. Scientists within the agency
   say early data from the trips is promising, showing a generous return
   policy and an extended warranty plan. In addition, researchers have
   investigated the digital cable setup at veteran space shuttle
   astronaut Ken Bowersox's house.

   NASA has suffered from a public credibility crisis in recent years due
   to perceived incompetence, a failed mission to Mars, the damaged and
   dormant Hubble telescope, and its inability to procure a long enough
   USB cable to reach all the way over to engineer William Chen's
   cubicle. But NASA officials argue that a secure high-speed line could
   prevent disasters such as a 2005 incident in which an employee
   attempting to download the movie trailer for Cheaper by the Dozen 2
   crashed the Mission Control Center mainframe computer for two weeks.

   Griffin may have an uphill battle convincing Congress to fund the
   project. As the NASA administrator himself admitted at the press
   conference, even if a workable wireless router is successfully
   purchased, engineers will need at least an additional two years to
   examine the owner's manual before attempting to install the
   complicated equipment.

   Once the wireless local area network is completed, Griffin said that
   NASA will embark on its next great project: constructing a laptop
   capable of taking advantage of Wi-Fi's high-speed access by 2037.


   CHARLOTTE, NC--Only days after its long-anticipated, much-criticized
   Car of Tomorrow debuted to overwhelmingly negative reviews at the
   Bristol Motor Speedway, NASCAR responded to the wishes of competitors
   and fans alike by introducing the stylishly retro, technologically
   retrograde NEXTEL Cup Car of Yesterday.
   [4]Enlarge Image NASCAR Introduces 

   "This is exactly what everyone from race teams to race fans wanted all
   along--a real American racecar," said Robby Gordon, standing in front
   of the Jim Beam '77 Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme he will drive for the
   rest of the season. "To hell with things like spoilers, adjustable
   suspensions, disc brakes, shoulder belts, all that junk. People want
   to see us racing the cars they drive every day, and anyone who's seen
   the parking lot at a NASCAR race will tell you that's what the Car of
   Yesterday gives them."

   Based on tried-and-true NASCAR designs from what many consider the
   golden age of stock-car racing, the Car Of Yesterday is based on the
   racing team's choice of four-door body styles: either the '77 Cutlass
   Supreme, the '79 Chevrolet Caprice Classic, the '78 Dodge Diplomat,
   the '77 Ford Granada, the '77 Mercury Gran Marquis, or for series
   newcomers Toyota, the 1989 Corolla. All cars, regardless of body
   style, must have fully reclining seats, column shifters, vinyl tops,
   ashtrays, and automatically retracting seatbelts. Adding spoilers and
   air dams for purposes other than providing advertising space is
   forbidden, although teams will be allowed to bolt wooden 2-by-8 planks
   to their front and rear bumpers for the contact-heavy short-track
   races. Mechanically, all cars will be basically identical, featuring
   360-cubic-inch V-8 engines with the air filters reversed, "glass-pack"
   mufflers, and factory power steering.

   "Our primary concern with the Car of Yesterday was safety," said
   NASCAR competition director Robin Pemberton. "The fans hate that shit.
   We had to keep that in mind when we went back to the drawing board, so
   we took away anything that increased grip, improved handling, or
   prevented a stock car from experiencing a sudden and total loss of
   control. NASCAR isn't about the cars, it's about the drivers. And the
   Car of Yesterday keeps the driver involved with the vehicle, whether
   he's just driving it or, ideally, crashing it."

   The Car of Yesterday underwent intensive single-car and multi-car
   tests earlier this week at Daytona, Texas Motor Speedway, and
   Martinsville, with testing director Brett Bodine and his crew wrecking
   34 cars in routine driving. An enthusiastic Bodine reported the new
   design passed with flying colors.

   "I could barely keep the thing out of the wall. It swapped ends, got
   way loose, and nearly spun out with little to no warning. Sometimes it
   dove down towards the infield for no reason I ever did figure out, and
   once coming off the banking at Daytona it rebounded off the suspension
   stops hard enough to bounce the whole front end in the air," said
   Bodine, who was pronounced healthy and released from Daytona Beach
   Memorial Hospital early Wednesday afternoon. "It may be the best
   all-around NASCAR stocker I've ever driven. I wish they had these cars
   when I was still racing, but unfortunately, they'd advanced past that
   point by then."

   Drivers were unanimously positive when informed of the Car of
   Yesterday and praised NASCAR's courage in pursuing a deign philosophy
   that satisfied fans and racers alike.

   "Like I said before, that Car of Tomorrow was crap," said Kyle Busch,
   who won the March 25 race in which the controversial design debuted.
   "It kind of stuck to the track in a boring way, and just sort of went
   where you pointed it. But this car reminds me of the ones I grew up
   watching--not just on the track, but on the two-lane highway outside
   of town. Hell, for all I know, this one was there."

   NASCAR president Mike Helton is currently working closely with all
   competing teams, current Nextel Cup drivers, and a network of salvage
   yards and used-car dealers to make sure every team has enough cars and
   spares for the Car of Yesterday's debut race, currently scheduled for
   April 29 at Talladega Superspeedway, the largest tri-oval on the
   Nextel Cup circuit and one of NASCAR's fastest and most challenging
   tracks.

   "We want to make sure fans have a strong first impression of the Car
   of Yesterday," said Helton. "And believe me, seeing a few dozen of
   these all-American road-hugging beauties roaring flat-out into
   Talladega's Turn One is something they'll be talking about for years."


   NEW ORLEANS--Mere moments after hoisting the crystal national
   championship trophy, Tigers coach Les Miles announced that LSU had
   made the decision to "go out on top" and retire after almost 150 years
   as a public university.

   "Believe me, beating the Ohio State Buckeyes was tough, but coming to
   this decision was much tougher," said Miles, who said he reached the
   decision after a Christmas day meeting with LSU chancellor John
   O'Keefe, university president John Lombardi, and Tigers quarterback
   Matt Flynn. "But I really feel that after winning our second national
   chamionship in five years, Louisiana State University and Agricultural
   and Mechanical College has nothing left to prove--to others or to
   ourselves."

   "There's not a doubt in my mind that this university will be as
   successful at whatever it chooses to do in its private life as it was
   playing football," Miles added. "The lessons LSU learned in becoming
   national champions will go with us for the rest of our lives, no
   matter where life takes us."

   Though established in 1859, Louisiana State University did not play
   football for more than 30 years, finally giving the game a try in
   1893. Even then, success was long in coming, and the school did not
   win a national championship until 1958.

   "We don't have the advantages of a lot of other institutions of higher
   learning, but I'd put our love for football up there with any of
   them," Chancellor O'Keefe said Tuesday. "But I believe every college,
   university, what have you, has to be honest with itself and realize
   there's a time to bow out gracefully. And LSU's time is now."

   "I'm overjoyed about the championship, and I've enjoyed being a part
   of what makes this university so great," said Flynn, who was 19 of 26
   for 174 yards and four touchdowns in what turned out to be his
   school's final public appearance. "That's what makes this decision so
   bittersweet, for me and for all the other players, coaches, students,
   professors, advisers, administrators, everybody. But when you're done,
   you're done."

   Flynn, like most of LSU's 34.000 students, intends to spend a week or
   so enjoying the victory and celebrating the championship before moving
   out of his soon-to-be-demolished dormitory and pursuing work in the
   private sector.

   "There were so many good times and so much great football with so many
   wonderful people that I have no regrets," said LSU architecture
   professor Marsha Cuddeback. "Sure, I'll miss teaching here. But
   there's not a doubt in my mind this is the right thing to do."

   "You get to a point where there's just nothing else to accomplish,"
   President Lombardi told reporters Tuesday, in between completing the
   paperwork that would cancel the spring semester and arranging for the
   sale of LSU's 2,100-acre campus. "From here on out, we at the
   university would just be padding our career stats. That's not how we
   want to be remembered."

   "When people think of LSU, we want them to think of a class act,"
   Lombardi said. "We want them to say, 'There's a school that really
   knew when it was time to walk away.'"


   MINNEAPOLIS--The tragic Minneapolis bridge collapse that left 13 dead
   this August brought national attention to the country's crumbling
   infrastructure, forcing many to question whether the nation's rapidly
   deteriorating roads, contaminated drinking water and groundwater, and
   run-down schools could perhaps be a metaphor for something.
   [4]Enlarge Image Nation Crumbling 

   The scale of destruction and loss of human life must surely mean
   something.

   In late 2007, the American Society of Civil Engineers conducted a full
   investigation into the nation's dams, highways, and public utilities,
   and gave the United States an overall grade of "D" for its upkeep.
   Unfortunately, however, the agency was unable to determine what, if
   anything, the country's complete and utter failure in every category
   it measures might mean in a larger sense.

   "Everywhere you turn you see improperly maintained railways,
   structurally deficient bridges--not to mention billions of gallons of
   untreated sewage flowing directly into our groundwater," said Adam
   Perry, a representative for the ASCE. "Is there an underlying message
   here? There are so many layers, and each one is so subtle and nuanced,
   that I'm hesitant to make any kind of blanket statement about what
   this means 'for America.'"

   "I think our overstretched and increasingly obsolete infrastructure
   might symbolize something important," Perry added. "But what?"

   With more than 350,000 contaminated industrial sites requiring cleanup
   and more than 50 percent of the nation's inland commercial waterways
   unusable, the ASCE and Congress launched a joint initiative last March
   to determine if the dilapidated infrastructure is a metaphor for some
   bigger, unknown issue or, alternatively, an allegory of something
   possibly having to do with the future or the nature of Fate.

   In early November, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi reported that, while the
   $2.3 billion project had yet to yield any definitive answers as to
   what thousands of unsafe dams might represent, it had provided some
   "very thought-provoking" ideas.

   "We're pretty sure the clogged highways are a metaphor for the
   ceaseless advancement of Time," said Pelosi. "And if we take our
   outdated and poorly maintained electrical grids to be a physical
   manifestation of lightning--the classic portent--then we have every
   reason to believe something big is about to happen."

   While it is unclear what purpose the crumbling infrastructure metaphor
   serves when taken in context of the nation's history, neither the ASCE
   nor Congress have ruled out the possibility that the United States is
   just one big coming-of-age story.


   CHICAGO--Citing the sobering statistic that over 10,000 of the 12,800
   slayings in the United States in 2006 were reported by joggers, a
   national coalition of fitness enthusiasts called upon government
   officials Tuesday to impose measures that would reduce the likelihood
   of runners discovering lifeless bodies.
   [4]Enlarge Image Nation Joggers 

   Joggers at a press conference in Chicago.

   "We joggers have lives outside of finding violent-crime victims," said
   jogger Elizabeth Riccardi, who recently stumbled upon the remains of a
   double-pickax homicide  while jogging around the Bartlett Reservoir
   near Scottsdale. "We're willing to cooperate with law enforcement, but
   we don't all have the time to be consoled with a blanket and a cup of
   coffee while some cop asks us the same tedious questions."

   Riccardi said that some joggers have become so fed up with the
   dead-body encounters that they've been forced to run only on busy
   sidewalks, to the chagrin of pedestrians.

   "I don't run through Lincoln Park after 6 p.m. anymore, I steer clear
   of that alleyway by the liquor store, and I definitely do not jog by
   the river at all," Chicago resident Chaz Montgomery said. "But,
   without fail, every few months I make another gruesome,
   routine-disrupting discovery."

   "I just want a good cardiovascular workout," Montgomery added. "I
   never asked for this, not during an intense incline push or even a
   slow cooldown."
     Nation Joggers jump

   LEADING FINDERS OF CORPSES

   Sacramento-based runner Keith Stafford said the problem has gotten so
   bad for him that after he happened upon his latest body, an
   unidentified newborn girl, he considered "leaving it there under the
   park bench for someone else to find for a change."

   "Why must runners bear this burden?" Stafford said. "My brother's a
   baker, but he never opens his oven to find a severed head inside."

   To help remedy the problem, the American Joggers Association has
   proposed creating special police jogging units in major metropolitan
   areas. The units, active chiefly during the early morning and
   late-evening hours, would patrol parks, beaches, docks, vacant lots,
   factory grounds, and other common dumping sites for grisly murders.

   AJA President Nancy Staudenmeyer said that the problem now affects
   more than just recreational joggers. "[Kenyan marathoner] Evans Rutto
   would most likely have won last year's Boston Marathon had he not come
   across an execution-style murder during Mile 19, and been detained and
   questioned for over an hour," Staudenmeyer said. "And because the
   victim's hysterical mother barged in on his interrogation, Evans
   wasn't even able to finish the race."

   The AJA has created a support network for corpse-finding runners,
   establishing a toll-free hotline and holding a series of 5K "fun
   runs," all held in sealed-off, freshly cleaned, well-lit gymnasiums.
   The AJA also produced a series of print and TV public service
   announcements depicting an exasperated jogger discovering the body of
   a mutilated prostitute and immediately text-messaging his congressman.

   "The PSAs have been very effective for raising awareness,"
   Staudenmeyer said. "There were a lot of joggers out there who thought
   they were the only ones finding bodies. Once they learn they're not
   alone, we can all work together to find a solution to this major
   inconvenience."

   Still, many have given up running altogether, saying that the prospect
   of finding a naked body cut up with surgical precision has sapped
   whatever enjoyment they used to derive from the activity.

   "I wanted to find something to replace running, so I took up fishing,
   " former St. Paul, MN jogger Derek Janowitz said. "That is, until my
   canoe bumped into that floating [strangling] victim."

   "I finally just gave up and bought a Stairmaster," he added.

   Public officials have not yet addressed joggers' concerns. Some
   privately admit that having joggers find dead bodies is a more
   effective and vastly more cost-efficient crime fighting alternative
   than using local law enforcement.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Braving balmy temperatures and sunny skies, millions
   of scarfless snowmen and snowwomen gathered in cities across the world
   Tuesday to raise public awareness about the heavy toll global warming
   is taking on their health and well-being.
   [4]Enlarge Image Nation's Snowmen March Against Global Warming 

   Snowmen from across the nation gather at the Washington Monument to
   protest global warming.

   According to organizers of marches in Washington, Atlanta, Montreal,
   Berlin, London, Reykjavik, and Moscow, global warming is the primary
   cause of the steep reduction in the snowman population throughout the
   Northern Hemisphere. Demonstrators worldwide called on their
   governments to take more aggressive steps to reduce the effects of
   climate change.

   Organizers estimated the crowd at more than 375,000, but D.C. Police
   Commissioner Charles Stacey estimated turnout at 30,000 whole snowmen,
   with scattered rounded abdomens accounting for an additional 5,000.
   Atlanta organizers and police agree that all demonstrators had melted
   by 11 a.m.

   Joe Centigrade, president of the Advocates For Beings Of Frozen
   Precipitation, spoke at a mass rally Tuesday on Washington's National
   Mall.

   "The unseasonably warm winters of the recent past are a clear
   indication of a real environmental threat to humans and their frozen
   simulacra," said Centigrade, his coals arranged in a frowning pattern.
   "As snowmen and snowwomen, we accept the inevitability of melting, but
   the actions of man are causing us to evaporate well before our time."

   Speakers at the Washington rally included a Chicago snowwoman who had
   lost three snowchildren to warm temperatures, the Rev. Jesse Jackson,
   and Larry Chilly, formerly a 6-foot-tall, triple-segmented Muncie, IN
   snowman, who had been reduced to a slushy head.

   Centigrade told the slowly melting snowcrowd that as recently as 15
   years ago, the average life span of a snowperson built in late
   December was three weeks to a month. Today, that same snowperson has
   an average life span of two weeks.

   Centigrade also recounted stories of once-jolly snowmen unable to keep
   their carrot noses in their fast-melting faces, and of others who were
   made of only two undersize segments.

   "In many regions of New England today, there's not even enough snow on
   the ground to make snowballs, much less a torso," Centigrade said.
   "Instead, some snowmen are stuck together with slush and leaves rather
   than pure, white snow. We must take steps now to end their suffering."

   Bearing signs with such slogans as "You Can't Build A Snowman With
   Rain" and "Winter = Life," the crystalline-ice protestors, many of
   whom had chartered refrigerated tractor-trailers and ice-cream trucks
   to travel to the mass protest, complained that popular stereotypes
   about snowmen obscure and trivialize the crisis.
   [5]Enlarge Image Nation's Snowmen March Against Global Warming 

   Larry Chilly speaks out against mankind's global irresponsibility.

   "Humans sneer at us, 'If you want to stay intact, go to the North Pole
   and live with Santa,'" said Susie Flakeman, a Thunder Bay, Ontario
   snowwoman waiting in line with hundreds of others to use a
   Porta-Freezer. "But less than one-half of 1 percent of us ever receive
   that honor. Most of us end up victims of the scourge that almost
   killed Frosty: man-made climate change."

   The protest was largely peaceful, disrupted only by a disturbing
   incident in which one distraught snowman hurled himself into the
   reflecting pool of the National Mall. He suffered third-degree slush
   on over 90 percent of his body before rescuers could recover him. He
   was rushed to a local meat locker where he was pronounced melted on
   arrival.

   Some scientists refuted the snowbeings' claims regarding global
   warming.

   "Throughout history, the earth has endured periods of temperature
   fluctuation," said Dr. Harley Morrison, a biochemist who has advised
   President Bush on scientific issues. "Also, there have already been
   several major blizzards throughout North America this season alone. I
   made a snowman myself, and he lasted for several weeks."

   Late word arrived Tuesday evening that the Moscow protest was
   violently dispersed by riot police bearing hot-water hoses and snow
   blowers. Moscow officials said the snowmen were illegally blocking
   pedestrian traffic near the Kremlin and causing people to slip and
   fall in their slushy wakes. Snow leaders, including Centigrade,
   condemned the crackdown.

   "Those of us who remember the Icelandic anti-heated-sidewalk riots of
   the 1980s know that the powers that be despise and fear snowmen who
   fight for their rights," Centigrade said. "They'd rather kill the
   messengers than face the fact that our ecosystems are changing
   irreparably. We're prepared to stay in D.C. as long as it takes until
   Congress agrees to listen to our demands."

   Before he could conclude his remarks, Centigrade's face slid off.


   NEW YORK--As winter tightens its grip on the nation, hockey fans from
   coast to coast are breaking out their team sweaters for the first time
   in what seems like ages, eagerly anticipating attending their first
   professional hockey game since the NHL's lockout began quite some time
   ago.
   [4]Enlarge Image Nation Gears Up R 

   "Oh, hockey's back? Well, I'm glad they finally got that whole thing
   resolved," said North Carolina resident Max Sherwood, adding that once
   the ponds of Raleigh freeze over, he would definitely consider going
   to a game. "I remember I used to see it on TV now and then, but not
   for a while, come to think of it. It's nice they're going to have that
   again."

   "I hope we can beat the Russians again, at any rate," Sherwood added.

   To fans of the NHL, there is nothing that comes close to hockey, and
   no doubt its sudden disappearance from the world of competitive sports
   some time in the last few years came as a crushing disappointment to
   the hockey faithful. But with the new year upon us, those die-hard
   fans will soon be thrilled by the breathtaking exploits of luminaries
   such as Mark Messier, Mario Lemieux, Gordie Howe, Paul Coffey, Barry
   Melrose, the Quebec Nordiques, and Wayne "The Great" Gretzky. And, as
   always, the NHL hopes that newcomers to the sport might find it fills
   the void between the college bowl games and the NBA All-Star Game.

   "I still can't believe they skate the entire time," said Phoenix
   resident Brent Quigley. "I've never managed to actually see more than
   a couple games back when they used to show them, and I've never been
   to one, because it's a pretty long drive to Los Angeles. But it's
   colorful, what with the fights and all, right?"

   Pittsburgh, a major hockey hotbed, is reportedly abuzz with hockey-mad
   fans, as the local Pittsburgh players are once again expected to make
   another run at the elusive championship.

   "You do remember that we actually won one a while ago? I'm pretty sure
   we did," said outspoken superstar Jagr, who, before the lockout, many
   hockey insiders claimed was on pace to break an important league
   record or records. "And yes, I think we are doing okay so far. It's
   early," added Jagr, apparently referring to his team's preseason
   record, after being asked if his team had a chance to win the Stanley
   Trophy.

   Though the league promises that rule changes made during the lockout
   will promote a faster, higher-scoring style of play that should
   attract Americans to the sport, the NHL may still have difficulty
   competing with other nationally televised athletic events that have
   traditionally earned a larger audience, such as professional football,
   college football, arena football, professional basketball, college
   basketball, women's professional basketball, NASCAR season highlight
   retrospectives, motocross, the And-1 Mix Tape Basketball Tour, NASCAR
   season previews, Monday Night RAW, professional bass fishing, the
   upcoming pay-per-view Oscar de la Hoya fight, ESPN Classic, the
   Ultimate Fighting Championship and its accompanying reality show,
   amateur bass fishing, highlights of Staten Island Yankees workouts,
   and college hockey.

   "We certainly think Americans have forgiven us for the lockout by now,
   and will continue to attend our games," said NHL commissioner Gary
   Bettman, who was also acting commissioner during the work stoppage
   that resulted in the cancellation of hockey's equivalent of the world
   series for the first time in 90 years.

   "It was certainly a difficult time for this league, but I think last
   season showed everyone we have what it takes to get our fans' hearts
   back," Bettman added, evidently speaking of the high standard of play
   preceding the strike.

   Although the NHL has yet to sign a broadcast package contract with a
   major television station, most networks say they are committed to
   giving out the more important hockey scores if time permits. ESPN, the
   last national network to feature a comprehensive schedule of NHL
   games, has said it will continue to report results of games during the
   popular Did You Know? segment, and would consider showing any Game 7
   of a championship series if the NHL could afford the airtime.


   NEW YORK--Delirium swept the nation this summer as the release of the
   seventh and final Harry Potter novel sent millions of Americans into a
   frenzy over some little wizard boy and all his flying wizard buddies
   going on another one of their little wizard adventures.
   [4]Enlarge Image Nation in Frenzy 

   WIZARD FEVER: Just look at all the people in their pointy wizard hats.

   Thousands lined up at bookstores to purchase the fanciful tale, which
   chronicles the exploits of the adolescent wizard with his pointy hat
   and glasses, as he and his magical little friends go traipsing into
   the forbidden forest and attempt to defeat the evil Hufflestuff people
   with the sword of destiny, magic potions, and other such fantasy
   dragon bullshit.

   "I can't wait to see what happens to Harry!" said Boston resident
   Julie Nolsteen, 28, just one of many grown adults with an unbridled
   desire to read about child sorcerers playing with their little
   cauldrons and frolicking around reciting magical spells.

   Nolsteen proceeded to rub her hands together with anticipation and
   ponder the fate of her favorite character, some guy named Dumblededoo
   or something.

   The entire nation has been all worked up ever since J.K. Rowling
   announced that she would be concluding the series, with men and women
   waiting with bated breath to see if all the tiny little wizards were
   going to do all their crazy magic curses again. Message boards flooded
   with comments from fans who eagerly wondered whether the wizard boy
   was going to be eaten by mean old witches, or if he and all his
   mystical pals were going to find the fairy crystal and have themselves
   a grand old wizard time.

   "This is the most important book in the history of literature," wrote
   one man wearing a robe with moons and stars on it, who was clearly
   unable to conceal his enthusiasm for flying horses and magic dust. "I
   hope Lord Voldemort loses!"

   Although the fervor has subsided since the book's release this summer,
   the promise of a new Harry Potter film next year has already gotten
   the whole country excited beyond all reason to see the little wizard
   boy fly around on his little broomstick for two and a half hours.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Saying the time had come for America to recognize
   "some of its most unsung heroes," President Bush issued a statement
   Tuesday announcing the creation of Black History Month History Week,
   which is to be held in the last seven days of February and will honor
   the men and women who pioneered the commemoration of Black History
   Month.
   [4]Enlarge Image Nation To 

   Officials unveil a new commemorative Gerald Ford stamp.

   "From Monday, February 19, to Sunday, February 25, I invite the
   American people to join Laura and me in remembering those who made a
   difference in remembering those who made a difference in the rich
   history of this great land of ours," read Bush's statement. "People
   like Cleveland Mayor Michael White, who recited Martin Luther King,
   Jr's famous 'I Have A Dream' speech during Black History Month in
   2004; event planner Sheila Carter, whose passion and determination
   forever changed the face of commemorating civil rights in America;
   and, of course, the Father of Black History Month, Gerald Ford, who
   first signed [Black History Month] into law."

   "Without the achievements and sacrifices of these brave folks, it's
   hard to imagine where African Americans would be today--especially
   during February," the statement continued. "We must never, ever take
   Black History Month for granted."

   All four major television networks are planning to preempt Black
   History Month programming with airing Black History Month History Week
   specials every weeknight. The networks have scheduled more than two
   dozen 30-second profiles of various Black History Month pioneers,
   including Annette Van Stijn, a former CBS News producer who created
   the first Black History Month network interstitial spots in 1980, and
   William Thorndike III, the first man to register the domain name
   "BlackHistoryMonth.com."

   PBS, meanwhile, will air a two-part Ric Burns documentary on the
   towering Black History Month figure, documentary maker Ken Burns.

   "No one has done more to bring black history to the average viewer
   during Black History Month than Ken Burns," Burns said. "I only hope I
   can do justice to the artful way he illuminated black history's giants
   by illuminating one of Black History Month's giants."

   President Bush and the First Lady are scheduled to hold a Black
   History Month History Week reception, to be hosted by Greg Gumbel, in
   the White House East Room on Feb. 23. The gala event will honor a
   number of guests including Portland, OR fifth-grade teacher Jo Bishop,
   who has what is considered to be the largest collection of Black
   History Month stamps, Carl Johnson, the first black director of a
   Black History Month TV special, and Hallmark illustrator Mark Spencer,
   who created over 250 Black History Month-themed greeting-card designs.

   The reception will also include a meal prepared by New Orleans chef
   Emeril Lagasse and a blues performance by Eric Clapton. The evening
   will conclude with the unveiling of a new commemorative coin
   commemorating the first-ever Black History Month commemorative coin,
   and a keynote address by Sidney Poitier biographer James Shimkus.

   Black History Month History Week has not gone without controversy,
   however. Some southern school districts are refusing to acknowledge
   it, and some black activists have criticized the lack of minorities
   being honored.

   "Where's the fanfare for those tireless African-American booking
   agents representing the Reverends Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson, whose
   dedication and perseverance ensured that this country would have to
   listen to two of Black History Month's most important spokespeople?"
   Nation Of Islam Minister Louis Farrakhan said. "Black History Month
   history is made all throughout February, not just in one week of it."

   "It's no surprise that the white man chose the last week of the
   shortest month to honor Black History Month," Farrakhan continued.

   Former president Bill Clinton took a break from Black History Month
   celebrations at Harlem's famed Apollo Theater to praise the move, but
   called on Bush to designate the last Wednesday of every February as
   Black History Month History Week History Day.

   "While this certainly is long overdue, we must not forget those
   leaders and elected officials of our past who set the stage for the
   creation of Black History Month History Week," Clinton said. "Only
   then will the contributions of these amazing Americans truly be
   honored."


   CINCINNATI--Overcome with a mixture of distaste at the almost certain
   future and a wistful sense at the way things could and should have
   been, baseball fans across America took time to address veteran Reds
   superstar Ken Griffey Jr. yesterday in order to let him know that they
   sincerely wish that Griffey, and not Barry Bonds, was on the verge of
   hitting his record-breaking 756th home run.
   [4]Enlarge Image Ken Griffey 

   "Don't take this the wrong way, Mr. Griffey, because the last thing we
   as a nation want is for you to think you've disappointed us by not
   breaking this record," the country's message, which was read to a
   quiet and humble Griffey by retired Seattle, WA-area mechanical
   engineer and lifelong baseball fan Robert Colgrave, began. "America
   knows you did everything you could, and we couldn't be more proud of
   you. In fact, that's the whole point--we think you're a man who is
   actually worthy of this record."

   "Believe us, if life was as fair as baseball, you'd have 760 homers
   right now," said Colgrave, pausing as if momentarily overcome. "More,
   even. And you'd still be chalking them up. You're a natural talent.
   God's gift to the baseball diamond. It's just... Damn bad luck, is
   all. Bad luck and trouble."

   The likeable but injury-plagued Griffey currently stands eighth on the
   all-time home-run list with 574, only nine back from Mark McGwire in
   seventh. However, America insists that without the bizarre injuries
   that plagued his career, Griffey would have had a legitimate shot at
   hitting 756.

   "I mean, when a guy misses out on the Rookie of the Year because he
   slips and hurts his wrist in the shower... Where's the sense in that?"
   America said. "Being denied the single-season home run record in 1994
   because of the baseball strike? Not fair. It's amazing that with every
   bad hand you've been dealt that you haven't packed it in and called it
   a day. Frankly, you're an inspiration--unlike some players this nation
   could name."

   The nation then went out of its way to praise Griffey for the many
   great moments and high points of Griffey's career, claiming it had
   "always meant to do so but never seemed to find the right moment."
   Special attention was paid to Griffey's decision to play for his
   father's old team, wearing his father's No. 30, in the city of his
   youth; his decision to wear Jackie Robinson's No. 42 on Jackie
   Robinson Day, and to encourage other players to do so; and his
   appearance on The Fresh Prince Of Bel-Air.

   Throughout the address, the nation emphasized the humility, grace, and
   joy with which Griffey embraced the national pastime. They talked
   about buying his batting gloves and signature baseball cleats as
   children, imitating his stance and perfect home-run swing in batting
   cages, and how they would ask their father's to hit long fly balls so
   they could make "Griffey-esque" catches in centerfield. They talked
   about his 1989 Upper Deck rookie card, and how, instead of going down
   in value with every hamstring injury, it should have skyrocketed in
   price with his 800th, maybe 900th home run. They talked about the guy
   who made wearing baseball caps backwards cool. And they talked about
   the elation they felt when Griffey became the first one to ever hit
   the Camden Yards Warehouse during a monstrous shot in 1993's Home Run
   Derby.

   "I would be proud to have Ken Griffey Jr. break my home-run record,"
   current record-holder and Hall of Fame legend Hank Aaron said upon
   being told of the nation's statement. "I would most certainly attend
   any game in which he had a chance of doing so. And I would come down
   from the stands and hug him fiercely after he crossed the plate and
   had been congratulated by his teammates. I really don't think I'd be
   able to help myself."

   "Hell, I'll probably attend the game he's playing in when my record is
   broken in any case," Aaron added.

   Baseball commissioner Bud Selig, responding to overwhelming demand,
   has confirmed that an asterisk will be placed next to Griffey's name
   in the record books in order to indicate that, in a perfect world
   where dignity is always rewarded, cheaters never triumph, and people
   always get what they really deserve, Griffey would have hit one more
   home run than Barry Bonds' career total.


   ATLANTA--The NCAA tournament field narrowed a little further--and
   became much more intense--on Monday night as the University of Florida
   tallied a convincing 84-75 victory over Ohio State University to
   advance further into college basketball's championship, making 2007
   the second time in as many years that Florida has reached the NCAA
   Tournament's Round Of One.

   However, Florida head coach Billy Donovan says that this time around,
   his team hopes to win it all.
   [4]Enlarge Image NCAA Tournament 

   "Anyone who knows their college hoops will tell you that the Round Of
   One is when the real tournament begins," said Donovan during the
   post-game press conference from Atlanta's Georgia Dome, adding that
   his team could go down as one of the best in the history of college
   basketball if they can advance past the next few rounds. "This was a
   great victory for our team, and a good confidence-booster, but it
   doesn't mean anything if we don't win next week."

   "I'm just going to enjoy this victory for tonight," he added,
   responding to a questions about possible adjustments the Gators will
   have to make in the future. "But tomorrow it's back to work. It only
   gets harder from here on out, folks."

   Thus far, Florida has moved methodically through the tournament,
   easily making it into the Round Of 32, the Sweet 16, Elite Eight, and
   the Final Four, but now has to deal once again with the pressures that
   accompany being the Wondrous One.

   "Last tournament we were a young team--we weren't ready for all the
   media attention and the grind. This year, we are totally focused,"
   said star center Joakim Noah, who was voted Most Outstanding Player of
   the 2006 Wondrous One for his play against UCLA, but struggled visibly
   with endurance and composure in subsequent rounds. "This is why I came
   back to Florida--to get past the Round Of One and, hopefully, on to
   the championship. I had something to prove, and so did this entire
   team. We're hungrier than we've ever been."

   Noah added that he made the mistake of playing too hard in last year's
   regular season and failed to pace himself through the early rounds of
   the tournament, and credits his steady but unspectacular 12
   points-per-game average this year as part of a concerted effort to
   save his energy.

   "I think Florida definitely has what it takes," said ESPN college
   basketball analyst Digger Phelps, who will call Florida's next game.
   "But there is so much pressure at this stage in the tournament that if
   a team comes out flat like, say, UCLA did in 1972, you just never
   know. That's what makes the tournament so exciting."

   Ohio State coach Thad Madda admitted in an interview outside a somber
   Ohio State locker room that his young team was "just not ready" to
   play amongst the elite, even going so far as to say that if his team
   did defeat Florida to move on in the tournament he would have had to
   contend with players wanting to go home at the end of their semesters
   in late April.

   "Heck, to win your final game, and end the NCAA Tournament with a
   couple dozen victories and no losses is everyone's dream, but
   truthfully, I don't know if [center] Greg [Oden] would have even been
   able to play in the championship game," Madda said, referring to the
   possibility of Oden being drafted by the NBA on June 28, two weeks
   before the final round of the NCAA Tournament. "I certainly wish
   Florida the best of luck the rest of the way."

   Though college basketball fans across the nation have enjoyed the
   tournament's close games, many are hoping that there are some upsets
   as tournament play continues in Charlotte, Pittsburgh, New Orleans,
   and Portland.  Fans will surely be glued to their television sets as
   all weekend games can be seen on CBS, while games during the week will
   air on ESPN, with the overflow being broadcast on ESPN 2.

   "I made a few crazy picks in my office pool that I'm hoping will pan
   out," Philadelphia resident Geoff Caldwell said. "Luckily, I had
   Florida going this far, but I don't think they'll make it to
   Nashville. After the Round Of One, the competition just gets too
   tough."

   If Florida does advance past the next round, it will be the farthest
   the Gators have advanced in the NCAA Tournament since it was
   fractionated in 1970.


   ANNAPOLIS, MD-In times of crisis, local neurotic Beth Haller is
   thankful to have a support network to turn to: her group of equally
   neurotic friends.

   "My friends are so important to me," said 36-year-old Haller, tearing
   up as she spoke. "They're always there for me, and I do my best to be
   there for them."

   Haller and her three closest friends, Shannon Olbrich, Jennifer Beech,
   and Leslie Chevik, are in near-constant contact, sharing stories of
   hardship over the phone, at local coffee shops, and during intense
   weekly get-togethers over multiple bottles of wine-a Sunday-night
   ritual they refer to as their "recharging sessions."
   [4]Enlarge Image Neurotic Woman 

   Beth Haller (right) discusses her relationship issues with her closest
   neurotic friends.

   "Do you think my wearing my hair like this is some sort of
   subconscious cry for attention?" Haller asked the trio of fellow
   neurotics at a recent recharging session. "I know I said I wanted to
   be happier with my self-image, but then I realized, how can I be truly
   comfortable with the inner me when the outer me doesn't match my image
   of the me I see when I form a mental picture of the person I think I
   truly am?"

   "Oh, totally," Olbrich said. "That's why I got the interior of my car
   reupholstered. Something just wasn't right until I did. But now I wish
   I would have gotten black. Do you think the tan looks stupid? At
   first, I really liked it, but now I think maybe it just looks cheap.
   You don't think so, do you?"

   Haller said that close friends "have literally saved [her] life" on
   countless occasions.

   "I know this isn't how it's supposed to be, and I feel guilty about
   it, but my friends are more like a family to me than my actual
   family," Haller said through subsequent tears. "That's okay, right? I
   mean, I love my family, but Jen, Shannon, and Leslie are the ones I
   spend real Q.T. with."

   Though members of Haller's family care about her well-being, most
   maintain little contact with her.

   "I just couldn't stand it anymore," said Haller's sister, Deborah
   Barkum, who lives in nearby Edgewater. "I'd get frantic phone calls in
   the middle of the night about some meaningless comment her boss made.
   She'd drop by for dinner, and I'd spend six hours listening to her go
   on about how she has to find a new apartment because the landlord
   refuses to do anything about the dogs down the hall. I finally made a
   rule: I'll talk to her on weekends, but that's it."

   For years, Barkum was frustrated by her sister's emotional neediness,
   but most of Haller's neurotic behavior is now addressed by her cadre
   of neurotic friends, from whom she receives constant affirmation and
   reinforcement. As a bonus for Haller, her friends' own neuroses make
   it easier for her to view her perpetual state of anxiety as normal.

   "Beth is such a special person, so complex and multi-layered," the
   Prozac-taking Chevik said. "I'm happy to be there for her when she
   needs a shoulder to cry on."

   "It is truly amazing how she's held on after the split," Beech said of
   Haller's 1991 divorce, still a major source of pain, heartache, and
   confusion for her 10 years later.

   Beech herself knows the pain of love lost. Six years ago, she dated a
   man for two months and then suddenly never heard from him again.
   According to Haller, the experience has made it impossible for her
   friend to trust any man.

   "Poor Jen," Haller said. "She was badly wounded by someone who said
   he'd call and then never did, and, as a result, she's built up this
   wall to protect her from ever leaving herself vulnerable like that
   again."

   Added Haller: "It seems like some of us have our load to bear in life,
   and no matter what we do, it never gets any lighter."

   Haller was cryptically alluding to any one of her own crises,
   including: her strained relationship with her mother, caused by an
   offhand comment her mother made in 1979 about never having expected to
   have a third child; her indecision about whether to return to school
   to receive a Masters degree in English; her "demeaning and
   demoralizing" research-assistant job, one of the few positions in
   publishing that a divorced woman her age can get; her home computer's
   hard-drive crash, which wiped out nearly five pages of notes for the
   novella she intends to write someday; and her new relationship with a
   man who is obviously a commitment-phobe, begging the question of what
   is the point of even proceeding to a third date.


   LA JOLLA, CA--Since several shrewd investments in software start-ups
   pushed his net worth over the $1 billion mark last fall, Mark Stern
   has been attempting to cultivate eccentricities commensurate with his
   new wealth, the venture capitalist said Monday.
   [4]Enlarge Image New Billionaire 

   Stern prepares to fly his newly completed rocket to a movie premiere
   100 miles away in Hollywood, via the moon.

   "When you have $975 million, you're just like everyone else," said
   Stern, 41, from the bow of Excelsior, a 58-person canoe that he
   commissioned for a world-record paddle around the world. "But I'm a
   billionaire now. People expect me to use my money to feed my ego to
   the point of borderline insanity."

   The often-caped Stern, previously an affable and soft-spoken man who
   kept a relatively low public profile aside from some philanthropic
   work, said his new status forced him to rethink his legacy.

   "I was being referred to as 'California billionaire Mark Stern,' or
   simply 'billionaire Mark Stern,' and it lacked impact," the mogul
   said. "So I vowed not to rest until every mention of my name is
   prefaced with 'eccentric California billionaire.'"

   Stern added: "And just to be clear, there's no way I'm settling for
   'colorful California billionaire.'"

   Though Stern said he is "beginning to get the hang of" billionaire
   life, he admitted to a few false starts while developing his bizarre
   idiosyncrasies, citing his easygoing, essentially rational nature as a
   major obstacle.

   "I did try the Howard Hughes thing of stockpiling urine in jars and
   wearing Kleenex boxes on my feet, but it was so depressing and
   lonely," Stern said. "Plus, I realized that it's not eccentric to copy
   someone else's eccentricities."

   Stern knows he has a long way to go before realizing his long-term
   goal of transforming himself into a full-blown, self-made eccentric,
   complete with a half-baked social philosophy of his own invention and
   an extremely expensive collection of worthless art.

    After abandoning plans to live permanently in a dirigible-lofted
   mansion in the sky, Stern decided to "start over at square one."

   "I started doing stuff like recoiling from shaking people's hands,
   smelling everything I picked up, and referring to myself as 'the
   anointed one,'" Stern said. "Nothing too out-there or grandiose, just
   some basic weirdness to keep up appearances while I tried to come up
   with the really original oddities."

   "I did retain some of the more esoteric affectations, though," added
   Stern, brandishing a pure ivory cane topped with a crystal sphere
   containing a lock of his recently deceased mother's hair.

   Though he now houses five of the world's 40 remaining albino
   alligators in his custom-made lucite dining room table, Stern had
   until recently been noted for his frugal tastes.

   "Mark drove a 1999 Toyota Corolla, and he used to pride himself on
   shopping at the Men's Wearhouse even though he could afford much nicer
   things," longtime friend Thomas Bowen said. "Now he only wears
   jumpsuits made of some space-age micro- fiber paper that he
   incinerates after one use, and all I ever hear about is his hydrogen-
   powered rocket sled that he's taking to Antarctica to break the sound
   barrier or something."

   Continued Bowen: "The worst thing, though, is how he's always asking
   everybody 'Is this eccentric enough? Is that eccentric enough?' It's
   getting really annoying."

   Stern said some of his recent lifestyle changes have taken their toll
   on him. Last Thursday, his divorce from his third Ukrainian
   contortionist-performance artist wife in as many months became final.
   And La Jolla police continue to question Stern after several members
   of a cult he claims he dissolved in February were arrested on charges
   of stalking the deputy governor of California.

   "I've made a lot of sacrifices," Stern said. "Do you think I love
   sleeping nude in a hyperbaric chamber pumped with pure circulating
   oxygen, or only eating foods that are white? The sad truth is, you
   can't always do what you want when you're a billionaire."

   "That's just something I'll have to live with until my bones are
   interred in the moon's Clavius crater," Stern added.


   MANAUS, BRAZIL--An international team of scientists conducting
   research in the Amazon River Basin announced the discovery of a
   formerly unknown primate species inhabiting a remote jungle area
   roughly 300 miles from Manaus Monday. According to scientists in
   Manaus, the new species, Ateles saporis, is "an amazing biological
   find" and "incredibly delectable."

   [4]Enlarge Image species 

   A member of Ateles saporis, which scientists say tastes excellent
   broiled (below).

   "We couldn't be more thrilled!" German researcher Dr. Jerome Keller
   told reporters Tuesday. "Very few scientists are lucky enough to
   discover a new species, let alone a mammal with a palatability on par
   with a tender, juicy steak."

   "This is a seriously tasty creature," Keller added.

   Although the creature resembles a large kitten, as a member of the
   Ateles genus, it is more closely related to wooly and spider monkeys.
   Ateles saporis, informally known as the delicacy ape, is a
   tree-dwelling herbivore that can measure up to a meter from head to
   tail. The adult delicacy ape weighs between 35 and 40 pounds and
   tastes wonderful with a currant glaze.

   Keller said the new species boasts a gular sac, a distinctive trait
   that separates it from other species in the Ateles genus.

   "The gular sac is a throat pouch that can be inflated, allowing the
   animal to make loud calls that resonate through the treetops," Keller
   said. "More importantly, the pouch can be stuffed with nuts or dried
   fruits prior to roasting."

   Biologist Jeanette Bransky, who served as the research team's chief
   archivist, presented a series of slides showing delicacy apes
   cavorting in trees, caring for their young, and sitting thinly sliced
   on a platter next to roasted red potatoes.

   "After careful study, we have determined that Ateles saporis is a very
   insulated species," Bransky said. "All of their food needs are met in
   the treetops. They're docile, affectionate creatures with a
   non-competitive social structure. They often sit grooming each other
   for hours on end, which explains why their meat is so marbled and
   tender."

   [5]Enlarge Image Species Jump 

   This marks the first primate species discovered since the nearly
   inedible Arunachal macaque was found in India last year.

   "In our studies of the delicacy ape, we have noted several traits,
   such as play activities, that are almost human," Bransky said.
   "However, the similarities do not run much deeper than that. Take the
   loin, for example. Unlike a human's, it's so savory and delicate that
   it can be eaten just like sashimi."

   "Raw or cooked, this species is one of the greatest discoveries of the
   21st century," added Bransky, licking her lips.

   The team plans to research the species for another two months and then
   publish its findings in both the International Journal Of Primatology
   and Bon Apptit.

   "We still need to complete an accurate population-density study,"
   Keller said. "We assume that their habitat is limited to the Amazon
   and that their total number is very small. We need to gather data
   quickly, as the species is almost certainly facing extinction. I mean,
   it's that good."

   Keller said the discovery of the delicacy ape underscores the
   importance of protecting delicate ecosystems from mass deforestation.

   "The Amazon River Basin boasts the greatest biodiversity in the world,
   with countless potentially tasty species waiting to be discovered,"
   Keller said. "As for the delicacy ape, I only hope there's something
   we can do to preserve it. Maybe we can get them to breed in captivity.
   Generations to come should have the opportunity to enjoy the taste of
   this majestic creature."


   WASHINGTON--Citing exhaustion, an overcrowded field of candidates, and
   little hope of making a difference in 2008, roughly 300 million
   Americans announced Tuesday that they will be leaving the presidential
   race behind.
   [4]Enlarge Image Americans Announce They're Dropping Out Of
   Presidential Race 

   The U.S. populace, which has participated in every national election
   since 1789, said that while the decision to abandon next year's race
   was difficult, recent events, such as disappointing victories by both
   Sen. Hillary Clinton (D-NY) and former New York City mayor Rudolph
   Giuliani in regional straw polls, left them with no real choice.

   "We gave it our best shot, and for a while it seemed like the American
   people actually had a chance of coming out on top," Weare, NH resident
   Mark Simmons said at a press conference in front of his suburban home.
   "Unfortunately, as much as we'd like to remain optimistic, it's become
   clear that this just isn't our year."

   Added Simmons: "Maybe you'll see us again in 2012."

   Though initially excited about making universal health care a reality
   and putting an end to the Iraq war, the American people appeared
   visibly worn down after only three months of campaigning. According to
   Beltway observers, idealism among Americans began to fade after the
   first series of major televised debates in August, during which every
   citizen in every state realized they would have to compromise their
   core values in order to remain in the race.

   Factors including intense media coverage of seemingly trivial issues,
   destructive partisan bickering, and the relentless exploitation of
   9/11 only seemed to further discourage Americans from making it to
   Election Day.

   "As the obvious underdogs, we knew that the chance of Americans
   winning in 2008 was slim to none," said Seattle native Paul
   Waverchuck, who claimed he was looking forward to spending more time
   with his family after giving up politics. "I guess there's just no
   room at the table for the vast majority of this country's citizens."
   [5]Enlarge Image Trashed Political Campaign Signs 

   An Ames, IA warehouse bears the brunt of the fallout from Americans'
   decision to leave the presidential race.

   Some pundits predicted months ago that U.S. citizens would lose steam
   before the first round of primaries in January. Unable to endure the
   breakneck pace of morning talk-show interviews and the constant
   coverage and scrutiny of Hillary Clinton's laugh, Americans reportedly
   began to lose focus as early as mid-September.

   A strong October surge in several states by Republican candidate and
   Mormon Mitt Romney made it clear to thousands that it was time to
   throw in the towel.

   "Once Law & Order star Fred Thompson declared his candidacy and Barack
   Obama started using religion to win votes, you could tell America's
   heart wasn't in it anymore," Washington Post correspondent Dan Balz
   said. "They knew it was over for them."

   While not necessarily shocked by the news, some political observers
   have lamented the recent departure of the nation's citizens from the
   2008 elections.

   "American men and women were the only real opposition to frontrunners
   like Clinton and Giuliani," New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd
   said. "They were the only ones who seemed to have the public's best
   interest truly in mind. Without them, it's not going to be much of a
   contest."

   While admitting to being disappointed by the results, Americans said
   they would continue to pursue lasting social change, whether by
   working overtime shifts in order to make education more affordable for
   their children, or by selling some of their belongings in order to
   provide medical coverage for aging family members.

   "Politics are all well and good, but sometimes you have to look for
   solutions outside of Washington if you want to get things done," said
   Henrietta Tanner, a single mother of three from Boise, ID. "Like
   standing in line at the food bank down on Cavendish Avenue, for
   instance."


   NEW YORK--A television commercial for Nabisco's Fig Newton bars that
   debuted Friday preys on a wide range of innate human weaknesses, from
   greed and gluttony to the compulsive need for self-gratification in an
   otherwise cold and uncaring world, industry sources reported Monday.

   "Flattery, pride, self-aggrandizement, fear of rejection: This latest
   Fig Newtons ad campaign fires on all cylinders," advertising executive
   and CNBC talk-show host Donny Deutsch said. "It has nothing but
   contempt for its target audience, its exploitative nature borders on
   the unethical, and it's one of the most brilliant marketing strategies
   in years."
   [4]Enlarge Image New Fig 

   One of the most egregiously manipulative shots from the latest Fig
   Newtons TV spot.

   Though the mise-en-scne of the 20-second spot is simple enough--an
   overworked suburban mother experiences a dream of paradise while
   biting into a Fig Newton, oblivious to her overflowing washing machine
   and four raucous children--it reaches consumers from every age group
   and background, as well as those suffering from all forms of fear,
   regret, and crippling uncertainty.

   "Mmmm," intones a tellingly paternalistic narrator, masterfully
   invoking humanity's pained longing for a supreme truth and its often
   reckless pursuit of short-term solutions. "So chewy! So delicious! So
   completely irresistible!"

   "Isn't it time you took a Fig Newtons break?" the commercial
   continues, ruthlessly preying on mankind's escapist tendencies and
   seizing upon several deep-seated self-destructive impulses.

   Although the first 10 seconds alone employ enough psychological
   gambits to sway even the most emotionally secure viewer, Nabisco's
   latest ad leaves little to chance, tapping into bedrock human faults
   like susceptibility to guilt and the slavish desire for acceptance to
   push the sale of its fig-filled treats.

   "It's a perfect, wholesome snack for any time of the day," the
   commercial eagerly announces, while the image of a young
   child--himself a physical representation of purity--tempts viewers
   with the prospect of recapturing their long-lost sense of innocence.
   "Fig Newtons are ooey-gooey great!"

   "Go on, you deserve it!" the psychologically manipulative onslaught
   persists, at once addressing, encouraging, and currying feelings of
   inferiority and self-doubt that have been a mainstay of the human
   condition for the past 6,000 years.

   "Fig Newtons--it's not a cookie, it's fruit and cake!" the
   advertisement finally concludes, subliminally appealing to consumers
   who have long yearned to break free of the confining categories into
   which society has placed them, and for whom even a commercially
   available dessert might symbolize the individuality they so intensely
   seek.

   According to marketing media analyst Glenda Howth, besides plumbing
   the depths of the human psyche, Nabisco's latest commercial also takes
   advantage of phenomena unique to modern society.

   "Nabisco shrewdly taps into a mother's conflict between wanting to
   care for her children while still retaining her pre-maternal sense of
   freedom and identity," Howth said. "Add an emphasis on the fat-free
   qualities of the snack that appeals to one's vanity and plays upon the
   often shallow connection made between physical attraction and
   self-worth in today's world, and you have one very powerful ad."

   Brown University psychology professor Scott Luchs concurred with
   Howth's assessment.

   "This might be the most subconsciously manipulative commercial I've
   seen since Procter & Gamble used man's fear of death to market Crest
   toothpaste," Luchs said. "In time, this ad could even rival M&M's 1983
   campaign of jealousy, resentment, and the need for human
   companionship."

   Although the true effectiveness of the commercial has yet to be seen,
   early figures from Nabisco indicate a nearly 4 percent sales increase
   among many prized demographics, including unmarried women ages 18 to
   37 who desperately wish to have a family, single men between the ages
   25 and 40 who suffer from unresolved abandonment issues, and girls in
   the 7-10 age bracket who already possess debilitating body image
   concerns.

   "I used to think Fig Newtons were bland and tasteless," said Martha
   Waterson, a recent divorce from Aberdeen, MD who is reflexively
   averse to change, is governed by prejudice and assumption, blindly
   trusts authority, believes in retribution, desires reassurance, is
   guilty of envy, lies to avoid hurtful truths, and suffers from
   separation and alienation anxiety. "Now I can't stop eating them."

   "I guess you never really know someone, huh?" Waterson added.


   NEW YORK--Academy Award-winning director Oliver Stone said Monday that
   his new film World Trade Center unveils "compelling and controversial"
   new evidence that a single plane was responsible for all four
   collisions in New York, Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania on Sept.
   11, 2001.
   [4]Enlarge Image Oliver Stone Jump Movie Sti 

   "There's no way anyone can ever deny there was only one plane."

   "Get ready to go through the looking glass here, people," Stone told
   reporters at a Manhattan press conference before an advance screening
   of the movie, which premieres Wednesday. "The film you are about to
   see is going to blow the lid off the 9/11 Commission's official report
   and expose a conspiracy that reaches the highest levels of
   government."

   World Trade Center, which stars Nicolas Cage as a dedicated Port
   Authority officer who stumbles on secret evidence amid the rubble and
   carnage of the terrorist attack, tells a story quite different from
   what Stone called "the official government line" about the event.
   According to the film, at 8:46 a.m., a lone commercial airliner flew
   diagonally through the North Tower of the World Trade Center,
   maintained a circular holding pattern for approximately 17 minutes,
   then struck the South Tower before heading to the Pentagon.
     Oliver Stone

   Stone

   After its collision with the center of American military operations,
   the so-called "magic plane"--which variously and ingeniously
   identified itself to air-traffic controllers as "American Airlines
   Flight 11," "United Airlines Flight 175," "American Airlines Flight
   77" and "United Airlines Flight 93"--took to the skies once again,
   landing at a top-secret "black-ops" Air Force base in West Virginia,
   where it was reloaded with a group of clones from another shadowy
   government program that Stone described as "shocking."

   Stone, who said he did not have time to explore the clone angle in the
   three-and-a-half-hour film, plans to do so in the sequel, September
   12.

   In a gripping sequence, undercover agents transmit pre-recorded
   cell-phone messages intended to fool loved ones and relatives with a
   false cover story as the aircraft heads to its final, prearranged
   crash site in the fields of southwestern Pennsylvania.
   [5]Enlarge Image Oliver Stone's Jump Map R 

   Viewers of the advance screening agreed that the most striking and
   pivotal scene was Cage's character's discovery of security-camera
   footage that affirmed the single-plane theory. Showing his skeptical
   but supportive wife the footage frame by frame, Cage notices that the
   so-called "first" plane, which, according to official, whitewashed
   reports, detonated upon impact with the North Tower in the initial
   collision, actually banks "back and to the left, circling for about 17
   minutes, and then diving into the other tower." He repeats the phrase
   over and over in increasing intensity, toggling back and forth between
   individual frames while the music swells and the emotional drama rises
   to a fever pitch.

   "After seeing that sequence, there's no way anyone can ever deny again
   that there was only one plane in the airspace over the eastern
   seaboard that morning," Stone said.

   "I am the most important filmmaker working today," he added.

   Early public reaction to the film has been skeptical. Many 9/11
   conspiracy theorists claim Stone is presenting an exploitative,
   far-fetched, and manipulative Hollywood version of the pain and
   suffering--including eye strain and carpal tunnel syndrome--they have
   undergone during their countless hours on the Internet in the
   tragedy's aftermath.

   Despite the controversy, Stone stands by his film. "This is a story
   that needs to be told, in a reality that only I can bring to the big
   screen," Stone said. "I realize it will be hard to accept for those
   unable to confront the truth, but I can't hide my head in the sand
   like some goddamn ostrich. To sin by silence when we should protest
   makes cowards out of men."


   WASHINGTON--After successfully gaining a majority in both the U.S.
   House and Senate in the 2006 midterm elections, the Democratic Party
   was mired in controversy when the newly elected speaker of the house,
   Rep. Pelosi (D-CA), was caught on camera wearing what appeared to be a
   skirt, ladies top, necklace, and pair of high heels.
   [4]Enlarge Image New Speaker 

   The speaker of the house openly addresses colleagues while wearing
   lipstick and pantyhose.

   Photographs and video showing the speaker traipsing around the House
   floor in the garish attire were leaked to C-SPAN moments after the
   110th Congress took office on Jan. 3. Since that time, Pelosi's
   unconventional clothing choice has been universally decried by
   Washington insiders as "a tragic blot on the long and honorable
   history of U.S. speakers."

   "I was shocked," said Wall Street Journal political analyst Kendra
   Graves. "This is not what I've come to expect from the House of
   Representatives--or the White House or Senate for that matter."

   Although Rep. Pelosi has made no attempts to downplay the scandal, the
   embattled speaker continues to draw controversy as more and more
   Americans have begun to voice their concern over a national
   legislative body being headed by an individual who enjoys wearing
   pantyhose in public.

   "What kind of a message does this send to our children?" Minneapolis
   mother of four Carol Hardwick asked. "That it's 'okay' for our top
   leaders to have long hair and paint their fingernails and speak in a
   high falsetto voice? This is America, for heaven's sake."

   While no formal plans have been issued to remove the speaker from
   office, key members of the Bush administration have publicly expressed
   disappointment with and disapproval of Pelosi's behavior.

   "It's disgusting," said Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who was
   wearing a three-piece suit and flats at the time.


   BRISTOL, CT--NFL officials and ESPN executives made an emergency
   announcement Tuesday stating that the 2007 NFL Player Draft may have
   to be postponed indefinitely, as draft guru Mel Kiper Jr.'s Big Board,
   the index-card-laden bulletin board used to catalog, rank, and track
   every single player in the draft, was accidentally knocked over late
   Monday night.
   [4]Enlarge Image NFL Draft 

   "I just got up from my seat at the table to get a cup of coffee, and I
   must have hit the Big Board with my shoulder," said Kiper, holding up
   a loose stack of cards bearing players' names, positions, and schools
   printed in his distinctive block letters. "Now, the entire draft has
   been jumbled all together and no one is sure what player should go
   when. We might have to wait until July for me to get everyone back
   where they belong."

   "Look at this," Kiper said, gesturing to a table where his Big Board
   lay uncharacteristically horizontal and bereft of player rankings.
   "It's not supposed to be like that. Not supposed to be like that at
   all."

   Since the Big Board's introduction in 1984, it has served as the
   ranking medium for all top NFL draft picks. In its entire 23-year
   history, the Board has never before been knocked completely all the
   way over.

   "This is much worse than the 1995 'bobble' of the Big Board that saw
   five players' names from the mid-first round come unpinned and flutter
   to Mel Kiper's floor," said Buffalo Bills general manager Marv Levy,
   who was woken by aides and told of the knock-over only minutes after
   it occurred.  "We weren't sure whether we were supposed to draft
   Warren Sapp, Ruben Brown, Mark Fields, or Ellis Johnson. In the end,
   we had to guess, and Sapp went to Tampa Bay. I don't want this to
   happen again, to anyone."

   Commissioner Roger Goodell issued a call for calm from an NFL office
   besieged by frantic phone calls from journalists, scouts, teams' front
   offices, and the agents of almost every player on the board, all of
   whom insist that their client was listed toward the Big Board's top.

   "While this is a huge setback for football, we will still be holding
   the draft in an orderly fashion," Goodell said. "We may have to delay
   it for a number of weeks, but one way or another, we will work with
   Mr. Kiper to recover as much information as possible related to player
   rankings. The full resources of the NFL are, as usual, at Mr. Kiper's
   disposal."

   Meanwhile, Goodell says he has requested that ESPN search through
   recent footage to see if the intact Big Board can be seen in the
   background of any shots or if Kiper appeared on the network discussing
   draft rankings at any time.

   "We're in bad shape, but all is not completely lost," said Kiper,
   shuffling through the stack of rumpled index cards he managed to
   salvage from the area of his floor where the board fell. "I'm
   reasonably sure that this 'Calvin Johnson' fellow was up near the top,
   for instance. He's a wide receiver, though, and I'm not sure I'd rank
   a wide receiver first. And there's a young man named Okoye here whose
   name I remember... 19 years old, though, can that be right? Damn it,
   how could I do something so stupid?"

   Kiper added that he would be working around the clock to restore order
   to the Big Board "up until the eve of the draft, if necessary," and
   hopes that some clue to the Board's former state can be found in his
   recently published draft guide, the 120-page Mel Kiper Jr's 2007 NFL
   Draft Report.

   NFL Meteorologists

   NEW YORK--Steaming black-guy heads, the traditional sign of
   approaching winter for generations of football fans, have been
   occurring later in the season with every passing year, a fact that may
   be evidence of a climatic change with long-term effects on football
   itself, top scientists in the meteorological department of the
   National Football League said in a study released Monday.

   "The phenomenon of weather-related African-American supracranial
   vaporous emission, or 'Steaming Black-Guy Heads,' as it is
   colloquially known, occurs when cold dry winter  air comes into
   contact with hot, humid, shaven heads of football players, causing
   their personal water vapor to condense and rise on a column of heated
   air," the statement read in part. "It is then observed by network
   cameramen, who overwhelmingly choose to film African-American players
   due to the dramatic contrasts that result--especially when the player
   in question is backlit--and beamed to millions of households during
   time-outs, replay reviews, and other stoppages of play. The viewers
   then realize that winter has come to America."

   "However, film review reveals that steaming black-guy heads, which
   during the 1970s were commonplace in mid-September, have in recent
   years not been sighted until the weeks after Thanksgiving," the
   statement continued. "Although further study is definitely called for,
   we conclude that the pronounced trend for steaming black-guy heads to
   occur progressively later every year--coupled with the phenomenon of
   giant triangles of ass-sweat persisting well into November--is a
   possible indication of a slowly warming climate across the entire
   NFL."

   League commissioner Roger Goodell was not available for comment,
   saying that, although early-season instances of steaming black-guy
   heads were obviously preferable, the NFL had no official stance on
   climate change, global warming, or other meteorological phenomena that
   did not directly affect the scheduling or outcome of games.

   Reaction among coaches and players has been mixed.

   "When I came into the league with Tampa Bay, steaming black-guy heads
   were everywhere in October," said longtime NFL veteran and current
   Carolina Panthers quarterback Vinny Testaverde. "The Bucs were in the
   NFC Central back then, and we played in Chicago and Green Bay a lot,
   and to me, they always meant Halloween was coming. But these days, the
   rookies think of them as the first sign of Christmas. You can't tell
   me that's not global warming."

   "Early on in my career, I saw them a lot, even in September," said
   Packers quarterback Brett Favre, who still has fond memories of the
   steaming heads of such Packer greats as Sterling Sharpe, LeRoy Butler,
   and Reggie White. "But this year we only started getting them just
   this week, and it's December already. Listen, I don't know anything
   about climate change, but I'd hate to see my daughters grow up in a
   world where steaming black-guy heads are just something you see on
   ESPN Classic."

   NFL climatologist Lee Orfordson, one of the authors of the report,
   advised caution among those worried about the dwindling instances of
   steaming black-guy heads around the league.

   "Remember that there are more domed stadiums now, that Northern-tier
   teams are being scheduled for more away games in Southern-tier cities
   during the winter months, and above all, that steaming black-guy heads
   are a single, if dramatic, phenomenon," Orfordson said. "There are
   plenty of numbers still to crunch here before we can say the steaming
   black-guy head has gone the way of the dodo."

   Still, for generations of fans for whom steaming black-guy heads were
   an important symbol of seasonal change, the announcement has inspired
   a definite feeling of foreboding.

   "I was the very first of the steaming black-guy heads," said former
   Raider defensive end Otis "The Grandfather Of All Steaming Black-Guy
   Heads" Sistrunk, whose own vigorously steaming head was noted by ABC
   color man Alex Karras in the early autumn of 1974 and began a
   winter-onset sideline-camera tradition that continues to this day.
   "And I'm very, very proud of that. I just hope I don't live to see the
   last."


   NEW YORK--Flanked by Food Network president Brooke Johnson and
   cooking-show host Rachael Ray, Commissioner Gary Bettman announced
   yesterday that the NHL has opted out of its contract with the Versus
   cable channel (formerly the Outdoor Life Network) and has reached a
   long-term broadcasting deal with the Food Network starting in the
   2007-08 season.
   [4]Enlarge Image NHL And Food Network 

   "In all my years as commissioner, I have learned that our diverse
   group of fans and players all enjoy food of some sort. Italian,
   French, barbecue, quick-and-easy 30-minute meals--you name it, one or
   more of them eat it," said Bettman, adding that Iron Chef French host
   Hiroyuki Sakai will join play-by-play announcer Mike "Doc" Emrick and
   analyst Brian Engblom to form a new lead announcing team for all Food
   Network games. "This partnership has been a long time coming. If the
   Food Network would have been around in 1991, we would have left ESPN
   in a heartbeat."

   "It's great to know we will be on television next year," Bettman
   added, smiling as the NHL's new studio team, consisting of Rachael Ray
   as head hockey anchor and Bill Clement as game analyst, collaborated
   in an attempt to equate the offsides penalty to "zesting up" a
   pan-seared T-bone steak. "Thanks, Food Network."

   Though Bettman maintained that the Food Network was always the
   league's first choice, sources close to the commissioner confirmed
   that the NHL also considered broadcasting games on E!, the Golf
   Channel, and Cartoon Network before eventually deciding to go with the
   network offering the best combination of financial incentives and
   airtime.

   "We also thought the lead-in programs on Versus, especially those that
   focused on bull-riding, bass fishing, and violent contact sports, were
   not entirely compatible with the image of the league," Bettman said.
   "Now, hockey games will follow Emeril Live, Feasting On Asphalt, and
   The Hungry Detective, which, as you can plainly see, are a better fit.
   Also, we are paying the Food Network much less money to broadcast our
   games."

   According to terms of the deal, the Food Network will schedule
   broadcasts of over 50 full-length hockey games and will carry both the
   Eastern and Western Conference Semi-Finals, as well as Games 4 through
   7 of the Stanley Cup Finals. The only exception, Bettman said, would
   be made for Rachael Ray, who appears on television roughly three times
   more than the NHL. In the case of Ray experiencing a scheduling
   conflict, hockey games will be postponed and rescheduled at Ray's
   convenience.

   "We liked the idea of having hockey because it has two halftimes,"
   said Food Network president Johnson, adding that the first game on the
   channel will feature the ceremonial dropping of an inaugural homemade
   Italian meatball at center ice by honorary referee Mario Batali. "Our
   debut coverage will include a halftime show hosted by Giada De
   Laurentiis, who will recap the game's events while guiding you through
   the preparation of Sicilian penne with swordfish and eggplant. Or, if
   you are in the mood for something more immediate, on-ice reporter
   Paula Deen will spend timeouts showing you certain tactics to enhance
   the flavor of your traditional southwestern dip."

   Though she stated that she didn't want to give anything away, Johnson
   said that the network's first hockey-related profile will focus on
   Sidney Crosby eating veal and creamed spinach prepared by Roker On The
   Road host Al Roker. Other hockey players now contractually obligated
   to make appearances on shows include Chris Drury on Food 911, Martin
   Brodeur on Calorie Commando, and Alexander Ovechkin on Dinner:
   Impossible.

   The new broadcasting deal has some sportswriters saying the move will
   make hockey even more irrelevant, while others believe this is a clear
   step up for the league.

   "I watch the Food Network far more than I watch hockey, and I think
   most sports fans feel the same way," said Boston Globe sports
   columnist Bob Ryan. "My favorite program is Food Nation With Bobby
   Flay. So I'll definitely watch that, and then maybe stick around to
   watch part of a period if the Bruins are playing. Everybody wins
   here."


   PARIS--A small but enthusiastic crowd of several dozen was on hand at
   the Tour de France's finish line on the Avenue des Champs-lyses
   Tuesday to applaud the efforts of the 28 cyclists who completed the
   grueling 20-stage, 2,208.3-mile race without the aid of
   performance-enhancing drugs.
   [4]Enlarge Image Non Doping 

   Great Britain's Bradley Wiggins finished the final 56km time trial in
   a respectable and drug-free 4 hours and 38 minutes.

   Finland's Piet Kvistik, a domestique with the Crdit Mondial team, was
   this year's highest-finishing non-doping rider (142nd overall).
   Kvistik claimed the maillot propre, the blue jersey worn by the
   highest-placed "clean" rider, on the ninth stage of the race when the
   six riders who had previously worn it tested positive for EPO,
   elevated levels of testosterone, and blood-packing.

   "This is a very, very proud day for me," said the 115-pound Kvistik,
   who lost 45% of his body mass during the event, toppled from his
   saddle moments after finishing, and had to be administered oxygen, fed
   intravenously, and injected with adrenaline by attending medical
   personnel. "They say it is physically impossible to ride all of the
   Tour without drugs, but we prove them wrong this day."

   "What day is it, anyway?" asked Kvistik, his eyes rolling wildly in
   his head. "I can no longer tell."

   Kvistik's overall time for the Tour was 571 hours, 22 minutes, and 33
   seconds, beating by over an hour the previous record for a
   non-enhanced rider, set by Albrect Part during 1923's infamous
   ether-and-morphine-shortened race. Kvistik finished a mere 480 hours
   behind Alberto Contador, the overall winner, making 2007's margin
   between doping and non-doping riders the closest in history.

   "It became most difficult for us on the 7th stage, which was almost
   200 kilometers and the first stage through the mountains," Kvistik
   said while accepting the non-doping victor's 100-franc check from his
   stretcher. "Not only did the excruciating pain and weakness in my legs
   make it difficult to walk my bike on the steeper stretches, it was
   mentally very hard to know that half the other clean riders were dead
   or dying. Also, the other 141 riders finished the Tour in Paris that
   morning, which made it all that much harder."

   "It's rather a shame that the Tour's 'clean' riders, or 'lanternes
   naturelles' as the fans call them, receive so little attention, for
   their monumental achievement," said cycling commentator Phil Liggett,
   reporting on the non-doping riders' finish for Versus-2, the
   little-sister network to Versus, who carried the main Tour de France
   coverage. "It's nearly impossible to compete in the full Tour while
   shot full of human growth hormone, erythropoietin, testosterone,
   glucocorticosteroids, synthetic testosterone, anabolic steroids, horse
   testosterone, amphetamines, and one's own pre-packed oxygen-rich red
   blood cells. To do it on water and bananas is almost heroic, no matter
   what one's time is."

   While Kvistik's achievement is being celebrated by cycling insiders,
   critics of the Tour de France maintain that not enough is being done
   to combat the use of performance-enhancing substances in cycling's
   premier event.

   "Nonsense--pure nonsense," said Tour general director Christian
   Prudhomme, who was vacationing in Switzerland as Kvistik crossed the
   finish line. "We have done everything we could imagine, both in terms
   of prize money and other incentives, to promote riders who compete
   without pharmaceutical aid. But we simply do not have the resources,
   nor the viewers the interest, to televise the entire two months it
   takes for a normal, unadulterated human to circumnavigate an entire
   nation on a bicycle."

   Kvistik remains in critical condition at the Hpital
   Neuilly-sur-Seine, where he was placed in a medically induced coma to
   aid his recovery from exhaustion, malnutrition, and loss of bone
   density. Attending physicians say he is not expected to return to
   cycling.


   YOUR SCHOOL--No one at your new college could give even two shits
   about the girlfriend you left back home, a special Onion investigation
   confirmed Monday.
   [4]Enlarge Image students 

   Students talking about things much more interesting than some girl you
   miss.

   "That guy [you] acts like he's the only person in history to be
   separated from his high school girlfriend after leaving for college,"
   said your roommate, who, after examining a photo prominently displayed
   on your dorm-room desk, described your girlfriend as being "not even
   that hot." "I'm sorry, but some of us are trying to actually start the
   next chapter of our lives here in college, so forgive me if I am not
   exactly on the edge of my seat about the unfolding drama of somebody's
   high school love."

   Since relocating to your new home in the dorms earlier this month,
   sources report, you have gone on and on about your 17-year-old
   girlfriend at every possible opportunity. Worse, you have done so
   without apparent regard for the fact that your utterly clichd
   scenario could not be less interesting to your fellow students, most
   of whom have spent their time hooking up with each other instead of
   mooning over some boring high school chick they're probably never
   going to see again after the next few weeks.
     Sources No Girl

   Your girlfriend

   Students interviewed by The Onion confirmed no one cares that "this is
   the first time [you've] tried to make a serious go of a long-distance
   relationship," that "[your girlfriend] is totally worth it because
   she's the most special person [you've] ever known," or about any of
   the other things you keep going on about to anyone within earshot.

   When asked to rate their interest level in your high school
   girlfriend, an overwhelming 93 percent of your fellow students
   responded "zero." Furthermore, when asked to list topics they would
   rather pay attention to than your girlfriend, they cited subjects
   ranging from dorm-safety procedures to cafeteria meal-card
   distribution policy to Earth Science 101.

   According to the campus-wide survey, interest was similarly
   nonexistent in several other areas of your life, including the fact
   that you were the editor of your high school yearbook, that you really
   miss that one cool restaurant you used to hang out at in your
   hometown, and that some high school buddy of yours may be coming up
   for a visit in a few weeks if he can get his father to lend him his
   car.

   Your girlfriend cemented her No.1 ranking as the least interesting
   subject on campus, however,  when you became highly emotional about
   her at a party last Saturday after having what eyewitnesses said was
   "only like, maybe two beers."

   "[You] even told this one girl who obviously wasn't hitting on [you]
   that [you were] taken, and then proceeded to talk her ear off about
   how great [your] girlfriend is," said one of your floormates, who
   wished to remain anonymous for fear of being trapped in another dull
   conversation about your girlfriend. "What a [total pussy]."

   Furthermore, dorm insiders claimed that everyone is glad you won't be
   able to make it to the big get-to-know-each-other floor outing at the
   Cheesecake Factory this Thursday night at 8 p.m., as that is your
   scheduled chat time with whatever-her-stupid-name is.

   Your girlfriend could not be reached for comment, as she was busy
   French-kissing some high school dude as of press time.


   PYONGYANG, NORTH KOREA--A press release issued by the state-run Korean
   Central News Agency Monday confirmed that the Oct. 9 underground
   nuclear test in North Korea's Yanggang province successfully exploded
   the communist nation's total gross domestic product for the past four
   decades.
   [4]Enlarge Image North Korea 

   The economic-blast radius of the test

   "This is a grand day for the Democratic Peoples Republic Of Korea,
   whose citizens have sacrificed their wages, their food, and their
   lives so that our great nation could test a nuclear weapon thousands
   of feet beneath our own soil," read an excerpt from the statement.
   "Now the rest of the world must stand up and take notice that the
   DPRK, too, is capable of decimating years of its wealth at any given
   moment."

   North Korea's announcement would appear to support the CIA's
   intelligence information on the blast. According to the CIA, over 500
   tons of compressed purchasing power, the equivalent of 40 years of
   goods and services produced by the impoverished country, vaporized in
   560 billionths of one second. The device consumed 15 years of peasant
   wages' worth of uranium, two decades of agricultural- and
   fishery-export profits' worth for its above-ground emplacement tower,
   and the lifetime earnings of the entire workforce of the Kilchu
   fish-canning factory for tungsten/carbide-steel bomb casings.

   "A nuclear device that size explodes with the force of 10 to 15 tons
   of TNT, or a moderately sized economic boom," said Ronald Shimokawa, a
   physicist at Los Alamos National Laboratory. "The detonation most
   likely sent the burning, liquified remains of North Korea's economy
   deep into the Earth's core."

   Across the country, North Korean citizens cheered wildly after
   learning their nation had violently transformed the equivalent of 2.3
   billion hot meals, 11 million housing units, and 1,700 hospitals into
   their component atoms. Others celebrated by gleaning recently
   harvested rice paddies for leftover grains.
     North Korea Map R

   North Korea

   "This fraction-of-a-second blast is what I, and my parents before me,
   have given up everything to achieve," said tractor driver Chin
   Lee-Park, whose machine was cannibalized for bomb derrick parts in
   1997.

   "It is truly a great day for North Korea," added Lee-Park, who then
   died due to a combination of malnutrition and tuberculosis.

   The North Korean government has long been suspected of building up a
   clandestine stockpile of capital, evidenced by their tendency to shut
   down national programs that provide its citizens with food, clothing,
   medicine, shelter, transportation, water, sanitation, education,
   living wages, and means of communication. A North Korean diplomat
   defended the decision, saying that citizens "need to make certain
   sacrifices so their country can afford the basic human right of
   national security."

   International suspicions intensified earlier this month, when
   satellite surveillance revealed that Kilchu farmers had burned the
   nation's last remaining wheat field to make room for the test site,
   that peasant shacks were being dismantled to provide the necessary
   materials to construct a cradle in which the bomb could be lowered
   into the ground, and that thousands of starving, near-naked
   Sangpyong-ri residents were digging an 800-meter vertical underground
   shaft with wooden rice spoons. In addition, an estimated 75 percent of
   North Korea's metallurgical wealth and gypsum stockpiles were
   repurposed for use as stemming materials to backfill the test site's
   hole prior to detonation.

   With the test, North Korea joins an exclusive group of nations that
   spends a huge percentage of their GDP on nuclear weapons programs.

   Yet, despite North Korea's claim that it will proceed with further
   nuclear testing, the international community is skeptical of whether
   it has the means to do so, in wake of news over the weekend that
   leader Kim Jong-Il has authorized the use of the remaining three
   percent of North Korea's GDP for the construction of six monuments
   bearing his likeness.

   Kevin Everett

   HOUSTON--Less than a month after Buffalo Bills tight end Kevin Everett
   suffered a life-threatening dislocation and fracture of his cervical
   spine that was predicted to leave him with permanent neurological
   damage, enthusiastic National Football League physicians attending him
   at Houston's Memorial Hermann hospital have announced that Everett
   will not only make a full recovery from injury, but will most likely
   gain the power of flight and soar out of the hospital under his own
   power.

   "What we're seeing in Kevin's case is proof that the serious-injury
   recovery rate in pro football is nowhere near as serious as people
   have come to believe," Dr. Robert Homburg, a neurosurgeon assigned to
   Everett's case by the National Football League, said while pointing at
   the wings he had drawn on Everett's spinal X-rays. "Not only will
   Kevin be able to walk out of the hospital, he actually won't have to,
   as he will heal so completely that he will be better than he was
   before and will almost certainly be able to fly out unassisted."

   "I don't think I'd be exaggerating Kevin's prognosis if I said we're
   looking at a 200% recovery here," Homburg added.

   Just days ago, physician Teodoro Castillo, Everett's original
   physician, said the injury was "extremely severe" but that healing was
   progressing surprisingly well, pointing to Everett's ability to sit up
   without difficulty and even move his right arm slightly as evidence
   that he might someday walk without difficulty. Upon being told of
   Homburg's claims, Castillo said the recovery would be a "staged
   process of indeterminate length" and that flying was almost certainly
   out of the question.

   "While it's true I have treated few players with Kevin's level of
   physical conditioning and mental resilience, I don't think it's fair
   for the NFL's doctor to tell him that he'll be able to fly," Castillo
   said Wednesday. "First of all, the trauma to his spinal cord was so
   extreme that we had to inject chilled saline into his body to induce
   healing. Second, no matter what Dr. Homburg says, people cannot just
   grow wings and fly, period, and to tell Kevin that is cruel. He
   probably won't even play football again."

   Dr. Homburg said that, while he appreciated Castillo's cautious
   approach, he was only in partial agreement with his colleague.

   "Sadly, I'm afraid it's true that Kevin will never play football
   again--the league cannot afford to give the Bills the sort of unfair
   competitive advantage a flying tight end would offer them," Homburg
   said. "It's a lot like how Steve Young and Troy Aikman had to retire
   when their concussions gave them telekinesis and the power to stop
   time. Still, for Castillo to just dismiss the idea of Kevin's
   more-than-complete recovery out of hand is cynical and unprofessional.
   Like many injury-related issues, while it may be based on sound
   medical practices, it goes against everything the NFL is about."

   "Also, I should make it clear that I'm not saying Kevin will actually
   'just grow wings and fly,'" he added. "It could be from magic, a rare
   form of spinal helicopter blades, or small jet boosters emerging from
   his feet. We have to keep an open mind about this."

   Reactions to the news from around the league were mixed, with the
   NFL's front office sending Everett and Homburg their congratulations
   on his full recovery; players' union executive director Gene Upshaw
   saying that any further medical complications in Everett's case would
   be interpreted as the result of improper flight procedures and would
   result in the cancellation of his NFLPA benefits and pension, if any;
   and Everett's fellow Buffalo Bills players responding with a stunned
   silence born of disbelief and, presumably, joy.

   For his part, Everett is determined to stay positive.

   "I'm just taking things one day at a time," Everett said from his
   hospital bed, where he is preparing to begin physical therapy and
   doing his best to ignore the multiple news reports about his injury.
   "I heard that some league doctor had said some good things about me,
   and I guess that's nice. I'll walk out of this place, just you watch.
   But just between you and me, sometimes I think those NFL medical guys
   are a bunch of goddamn liars."


   GREENWOOD, IN--Sitting in a quiet downtown diner, local hospital
   administrator Philip Meyer looks as normal and well-adjusted as can
   be. Yet, there's more to this 27-year-old than first meets the eye:
   Meyer has recently finished reading a book.
   [4]Enlarge Image Eccentric 

   Even outdoors, Meyer can't seem to think of anything better to do than
   flip through some American classic.

   Yes, the whole thing.

   "It was great," said the peculiar Indiana native, who, despite owning
   a television set and having an active social life, read every single
   page of To Kill a Mockingbird by Harper Lee. "Especially the way
   things came together for Scout in the end. Very good."

   Meyer, who never once jumped ahead to see what would happen and
   avoided skimming large passages of text in search of pictures, first
   began his oddball feat a week ago. Three days later, the eccentric
   Midwesterner was still at it, completing chapter after chapter,
   seemingly of his own free will.

   "The whole thing was really engrossing," said Meyer, referring not to
   a movie, video game, or competitive sports match, but rather a
   full-length, 288-page novel filled entirely with words. "There were
   days when I had a hard time putting it down."

   Even more bizarre, Meyer is believed to have done most of his reading
   during his spare time--time when the outwardly healthy and stable
   resident could have literally been doing anything else, be it
   aimlessly surfing the Internet, taking a nap, or simply just staring
   at his bedroom wall.

   "It'd be nice to read it again at some point," Meyer continued, as if
   that were a perfectly natural thing to say.

   While it's difficult to imagine what compelled Meyer to read more than
   just the back cover of To Kill a Mockingbird, friends and family
   members claim the strange behavior goes all the way back to his
   childhood.

   "I remember when Phil was a little kid, instead of picking up a book,
   getting bored, and then throwing it at his sister, he'd actually sit
   down and read the whole thing," said mother Susan Meyer, who declared
   she has long given up trying to explain her son's unusual hobby. "At
   the time, we thought it was just a phase he was going through. I guess
   we were wrong."

   Over the years, Meyer has read dozens of books from beginning to end,
   regardless of whether he was forced to do so by a professor in school
   or whether a film version of the reading material already existed.
   According to girlfriend Jessica Kohler, he even uses a special
   cardboard marking device so that he can keep track of where he has
   stopped reading and later return to that exact same place.

   "I used to find Phil's reading kind of charming because I had never
   really met anyone who read outside of a waiting room," Kohler said.
   "But more and more, it just feels odd, you know? He can't even go to
   the beach without bringing one of his books along."

   According to behavioral psychologist Dr. Elizabeth Schulz, Meyer's
   reading of entire books is abnormal and may be indicative of a more
   serious obsession with reading.

   "Instead of just zoning out during a bus ride or spending hour after
   hour watching YouTube videos at night, Mr. Meyer, unlike most healthy
   males, looks to books for gratification," Schulz said. "Really, it's a
   classic case of deviant behavior."

   "At least, that's what it seems like from what little I've skimmed on
   the topic," she added.

   As bizarre as it may seem, Meyer isn't alone. Once a month, he and
   several other Greenwood residents reportedly gather at night not only
   to read books all the way through, but also to discuss them at length.

   "I don't know, it's like this weird 'book club' they're all a part
   of," said Brian Cummings, a longtime coworker and friend of Meyer's.
   "Seriously, what a bunch of freaks."


   LOS ANGELES--Suspended Tennessee Titans cornerback Adam "Pac-Man"
   Jones called a press conference Tuesday in order to emphasize that he
   will be nowhere near a possibly fatal stabbing that will occur during
   a fight involving several members of his entourage and the bartender
   at an L.A.-area strip club this coming Friday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Pacman Jones 

   "I just want people to know that I'm not going to be present at
   Shaker's, the club where possibly about to be deceased chump-ass
   bartender Darrent Wilson has been known to exchange harsh language and
   threats with my known associates, including kicking me and my people
   out of his establishment," said Jones, who is also currently being
   questioned by police concerning a recent shooting at an Atlanta strip
   club and is currently on suspension from the NFL following a melee and
   shooting in February at a Las Vegas strip club. "I am sorry for what
   is about to happen to this man, who will be in the wrong place at the
   wrong time, but it will have had nothing to do with me."

   Jones also took the opportunity to appeal once more to the NFL for
   leniency in a case of what he called "bad luck."

   "I will be going to bed at midnight on Friday anyway, and the
   gentleman in question will not be knifed until about 3 a.m.," Jones
   added. "And about Wednesday I'm deciding to give up strip clubs
   anyway, since bad stuff can happen there, especially when employees
   act unreasonable. Just because I know the guys who will be there when
   this happens doesn't necessarily mean I knew it was going to happen."

   The fight, which sources close to Jones say will apparently start as
   an argument over a woman, will involve Wilson and at least three
   as-yet unidentified members of Jones' group, although witnesses will
   not be able to place Jones at the scene. When contacted about the
   incident, Jones plans to promise to cooperate with authorities in
   their investigation and pray for Wilson's speedy recovery, if the
   bartender is alive at the time.

   Jones stressed that no charges have yet been filed against him, saying
   that, although unfortunate, anticipation of the stabbing was "blowing
   the incident all out of proportion."

   "This Saturday will mark my sixth arrest, or possibly seventh. I can't
   tell the future," Jones said, shaking his head in apparent anger. "Yet
   I won't get charged this time, either. They'll just be persecuting me
   for the stabbing that's going to happen because of the other stuff
   that already happened. Is that fair? I don't think that when Mr. Smart
   Mouth Darrent Wilson gets stabbed it should affect my career like
   that."

   "You know that Darrent, the guy who's going to get tragically stabbed,
   has always had it in for me," Jones added. "By the time he gets put in
   the hospital or killed, he will have thrown me out of his club at
   least twice, and there's two days between now and the stabbing. I
   think he's going to use getting cut up as an excuse to get at my
   money, is what I think."

   Manny Arora, Jones' attorney, said that Jones was "genuinely sorry in
   advance" about the incident, but was not at liberty to answer
   questions regarding his relationship with the one to three men who
   will be seen fleeing the vicinity covered in blood. Jones refused to
   confirm that the weapon to be used in the stabbing, a seven-inch
   pearl-handled hunting knife, will in fact be given to one of the men
   by Jones himself this coming Friday morning.

   NFL commissioner Roger Goodell has already scheduled a rare Sunday
   meeting with Jones, demanding Jones be in his office as soon as news
   of the incident becomes public.

   Patriots Stunned By Mere 17-Point Victory

   BOSTON--The Patriots organization is reeling this week following their
   narrow 34-17 victory over the lowly Browns, taking stock of their
   game-planning methods, philosophy, and indeed their entire season in
   the aftermath of a game in which they gained barely more than 500
   total yards, came within seconds of failing to cover the spread, and
   scored only twice as much as their opponent.

   "I think it's too early to call the season a failure," said visibly
   shaken Patriots head coach Bill Belichick, who was called into the
   office of owner Robert Kraft Monday morning and officially placed on
   probation in light of the insufficiently dominant victory. "I wish to
   extend my deepest apologies to the Patriots fans and ask them to
   continue supporting the players and the team. All the blame for
   Sunday's victory has to lie with me."

   Practices have been subdued and intense this week as players struggle
   to adjust offensive and defensive schemes that were unable to put the
   Browns away until late in the first quarter, produced a scant 4.4
   yards per rush--only 0.6 yards over the league average--and had to
   rely on two interceptions and a fumble recovery to finally go up by
   more than 10 points.

   "I have to take my share of the blame," said quarterback Tom Brady,
   who has already drawn moderate criticism this season for throwing only
   three touchdowns in each of the Patriots' games so far. "With two
   minutes left in the fourth quarter, I missed [tight end] Kyle [Brady]
   in the end zone. Any other greatest quarterback makes that touchdown
   pass and we win by 24--not outstanding, but at least it would have
   given us some pride in the locker room. As it was, we couldn't look
   each other in the eye."

   Although Belichick has refused to discuss personnel moves, Patriots
   insiders say that benching Brady for next week's game against
   undefeated Dallas was a definite possibility. All-pro tight end Ben
   Watson, who only scored twice against the Browns and struggled to
   produce a 106-yard performance, will almost certainly lose his
   starting job. Backup running back Samuel Morris managed only 102 yards
   on 21 carries and is generally acknowledged to be finished in the NFL.
   And wideout Randy Moss, held to only 49 yards, is almost certain to be
   traded by next week.

   "It was probably my worst game as a pro," said linebacker Junior Seau,
   who was almost invisible for the whole game, only able to intercept a
   total of two Derek Anderson passes all game and none in the second
   half. "Not that I was alone out there. Randall [Gay] only recovered
   one fumble for a touchdown. And I hate to call out the other unit, but
   there were a couple of times when the offensive line almost gave up
   their fourth sack of the season."

   "I've tried so hard to build a culture of winning here, and this is
   the kind of win we get," Belichick said at a post-practice press
   conference Wednesday. "This team has so much wrong with it, it's hard
   to believe we've managed to only lose zero games."


   TERRE HAUTE, IN--Indianapolis Colts quarterback Peyton Manning
   interrupted an intrasquad scrimmage Tuesday for approximately 45
   minutes in order to show backup quarterback Jim Sorgi how to properly
   hold his clipboard.
   [4]Enlarge Image Peyton Manning 

   Manning demonstrates the proper form to use while holding the
   clipboard with one hand and using the headset during third-quarter
   second-and-long situations.

   "He's got to learn consistency if he's going to be the backup on this
   team, and that starts with the little things, like holding the
   clipboard with two hands," Manning told reporters following the
   practice. "When I see my backup holding the clipboard with the top
   portion clenched in his one hand and the bottom portion digging into
   his bicep, I see a quarterback taking a 'me-first' approach. That's
   unacceptable."

   "Holding the clipboard isn't about individual performance. It's about
   winning," added Manning, who later stated he was disappointed in Sorgi
   and that he thought the two were on the same page following a two-hour
   clipboard conversation he had with Sorgi during the Colts' voluntary
   spring practice. "I once thought that if Jim wanted to set himself
   apart, maybe he could wear his hat with a little extra curvature in
   the brim. But for now, I'd have to say he doesn't deserve that
   privilege."

   Manning claimed to have mentioned several previous
   clipboard-mishandling incidents to Sorgi prior to the on-field
   confrontation, including times when Sorgi held only the bottom-left
   corner of the clipboard "as if he didn't care if he dropped it"; when
   he caught Sorgi gripping the clipboard with two hands, but loosely and
   "as if he was just going through the motions"; and when he saw Sorgi
   standing on the sidelines trying to spin the clipboard on his index
   finger, an action Manning called disrespectful to both the team and
   the game of football.

   "I even caught him out of the corner of my eye letting the clipboard
   hang carelessly down by his thigh during our preseason game against
   the [Chicago] Bears," said Manning, adding that he had not said
   anything to Sorgi at the time because he wanted to give him a chance
   to rectify the problem on his own. "I almost burned a time-out, but
   that was on the same day he took my advice to affix an 18-inch length
   of clean white cord to the clipboard in order to keep better track of
   his writing utensil, so I let it slide. Baby steps, after all."

   Manning said he began to suspect that Sorgi had reverted to a careless
   and lackadaisical state of mind upon seeing Sorgi gripping the
   clipboard at the top part of its clamping mechanism, which Manning
   said could have ultimately led to the application of enough pressure
   to allow the documents held by the clipboard to escape, and possibly
   even be blown towards the opposing sideline.

   "Look--if he messes up like that and the other team has all of our
   offensive schemes, then we don't repeat as [Super Bowl] champions,"
   Manning said. "It's that simple. True, I've never had to hold that
   clipboard, and I never plan to. Jim Sorgi is going to be holding that
   clipboard for the rest of my career, so it's essential he becomes a
   pro at it."

   "We're only as strong as our weakest link," Manning added. "Jim Sorgi
   had best remember that."

   Though Sorgi admitted to violating Manning's clipboard-holding policy,
   he said a lack of communication, not a lack of commitment, was really
   to blame.

   "Sometimes Peyton and I just aren't always on the same wavelength,"
   Sorgi told reporters after Manning left the facility. "It gets really
   confusing. Basically, Peyton likes to give me three different
   clipboard-holding options during specific game situations, signaling
   them to me before the snap. At any given time during a game, he could
   scream at me to change my grip to, say, ten-and-two instead of
   six-and-four, and naturally, there will be times I don't hear him
   completely."

   "I just wish he would stick to his initial clipboard-holding plan--two
   hands at three and nine," Sorgi said. "It would make things easier on
   all of us."

   Upon being told of Sorgi's comments, Manning commented that Sorgi's
   "prima donna attitude is the reason he's not allowed to run
   kneel-downs during the regular season."

   Colts head coach Tony Dungy claimed he was unaware of any problem with
   his quarterbacks and said he would be taking more of a hands-off
   approach this season, allowing Manning to do the majority, if not all,
   of the coaching.


   PARAMUS, NJ--With students set to arrive in about three weeks,
   teachers at Washington Street Elementary School were scrambling Monday
   to deal with a new round of budget cuts that slashed funding for the
   pipe cleaners and googly eyes they say are the cornerstone of a
   humanities-based education.
   [4]Enlarge Image Pipe Cleaners 

   Pipe cleaners have been used as a form of artistic expression for
   generations.

   "We are closing the door on our children's creativity," said Melinda
   Jarvis, a first-grade teacher who has used bendy and twisty materials
   in her art lessons for more than 15 years. "Without pipe cleaners,
   these kids will be totally unable to transform everyday objects into
   things with skinny arms and legs. We'll just have a bunch of egg
   cartons sitting around. How is that going to teach them anything about
   the rich artistic traditions that have shaped our civilization for
   millennia?"

   Jarvis, who plans to lead an Indian-style sit-in on the first day of
   school to protest the cuts, is only one of thousands of educators
   across the country to face dramatic drops in their arts budgets over
   the past several years. In Boca Raton, FL, there were reports of up to
   16 kindergartners sharing the same pine cone. More than half of Iowa's
   elementary school students gave their mothers crumpled-up Kleenex
   wrappers taped to tongue depressors as Valentine's Day "roses" last
   year. And a school in Oxnard, CA was reduced to having students draw
   crude eyeballs on scraps of construction paper handed down from
   third-grade classes.
   [5]Enlarge Image Pipe Cleaners 

   A petition decrying the cuts drafted and signed by concerned
   third-graders in Ida Rosen's class in Marquette, MI.

   Bergen County superintendent of schools Jim Eckford said his office
   was forced to make some very difficult decisions, and that Washington
   Street Elementary School students and teachers alike would simply have
   to adjust to the new reality this fall.

   "I would love nothing more than to see every student be able to make
   as many Santa Clauses with big, bushy beards as their hearts desire,"
   Eckford said. "But these are tough times, and the fact of the matter
   is, cotton balls don't grow on trees."

   In light of the budget tightening, Eckford suggested teachers develop
   creative outlets for their children that involve pebbles or
   paper-towel rolls, or somehow combine art class with lunch period.

   Local parents have joined the chorus of opponents, pointing to the
   need to stay competitive with better-funded private schools in which
   students have unlimited access to pipe cleaners and have been known to
   glue googly eyes to other googly eyes.

   "Cutting pipe cleaners and googly eyes is simply going to lead to the
   elimination of more items from school budgets, like Popsicle sticks
   and yarn," said Geraldine Mailer, president of the Washington Street
   Elementary School PTA and a mother of four. "To write out one's name,
   or the name of one's mommy, by pasting dried macaroni to colored paper
   is to illuminate the human soul. We're going to wind up raising a
   generation of mindless conformists."

   Mailer said that the deprivation could lead to future problems,
   including low self-esteem, juvenile delinquency, and a chronic
   inability to create homemade cards and scrapbooks.

   "If we're going to deny our children access to diverse forms of mixed
   media, we may as well just shove a piece of paper in front of them,
   stick a pencil in their hands, and tell them to have at it," Mailer
   said. "But is that what we want for our kids? Is that what we want for
   art?"


   CHICAGO--Music, a mode of creative expression consisting of sound and
   silence expressed through time, was given a 6.8 out of 10 rating in an
   review published Monday on Pitchfork Media, a well-known
   music-criticism website.
     Pitchfork Gives Logo

   According to the review, authored by Pitchfork editor in chief Ryan
   Schreiber, the popular medium that predates the written word shows
   promise but nonetheless "leaves the listener wanting more."

   "Music's first offering, an eclectic, disparate, but mostly functional
   compendium of influences from 5000 B.C. to present day, hints that
   this trend's time may not only have fully arrived, but is already on
   the wane," Schreiber wrote. "If music has any chance of keeping our
   interest, it's going to have to move beyond the same palatable but
   predictable notes, meters, melodies, tonalities, atonalities, timbres,
   and harmonies."

   Schreiber's semi-favorable review, which begins in earnest after a
   six-paragraph preamble comprising a long list of baroquely rendered,
   seemingly unrelated anecdotes peppered with obscure references,
   summarizes music as a "solid but uninspired effort."

   "Coming in at an exhausting 7,000 years long, music is weighed down by
   a few too many mid- tempo tunes, most notably 'Liebestrume No. 3 in A
   flat' by Franz Liszt and 'Closing Time' by '90s alt-rock group
   Semisonic," Schreiber wrote. "In the end, though music can be
   brilliant at times, the whole medium comes off as derivative of
   Pavement."

   While Schreiber concedes that music is still "trying to find its
   aesthetic," he also claims the form has not yet lived up to the lavish
   praise heaped on it by pop culture journalist Chuck Klosterman and
   19th-century French romantic composer and critic Hector Berlioz, among
   others.

   Schreiber concludes his critique by calling on music to develop a more
   cohesive sound in its future releases.

   "We can only hope that [music] will begin to grow with its fans over
   the next few millennia," Schreiber said. "If it can stick to what it
   does well, namely the song 'Peg' by Steely Dan, and Tuvan throat
   singing, then a sophomore effort will indeed be something to get
   excited about."

   The review has split the music community, with many decrying
   Pitchfork's lukewarm reception of music as a contrarian move designed
   to propel the publication's tastemaker status.

   "It's elitism for the sake of elitism," said Rolling Stone senior
   editor David Fricke, who refuted Pitchfork's middling rating,
   describing the entire art form as "transcendent." "I've been listening
   to music for over 30 years, and it's consistently some of the best
   stuff out there."

   Despite music's defenders, the Pitchfork review has made a deep
   impression on the thousands of music fans who slavishly follow the
   website's advice when it comes to enjoying things.

   "Music used to be great, but let's be honest, it's a 6.8 now at best,"
   said Los Angeles resident Lowell Radler, 23, who admitted that he
   just looked at the rating rather than reading the whole review. "I
   seriously might never listen to music again."

   Still, most analysts agreed that the impact of Pitchfork's scathing
   review of music will be dampened by the 2.4 rating it received from
   Pitchfork staff writer Dave Maher just moments after the initial
   critique was published online. Maher termed Schreiber's assessment of
   music "overwrought, masturbatory posturing intended to make insecure
   hipsters feel as if they're part of some imagined elite beau monde."


   CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND--In a resounding display of horsemanship,
   lancemanship, and puissance that marked both his first major
   tournament success and a great victory on the international stage for
   the British crown, the gallant English Prince William did mightily
   unseat Prince Willem- Alexander of the Netherlands in combat at the
   Cheltenham Jousts this Sunday week.
   [4]Enlarge Image Prince William 

   The valiant Prince William triumphant in victory.

   The prince, his aspect as always noble and his armour brightly agleam,
   did strike his gentleman-foe the Prince of Orange with a single
   shivering blow to the very center of his greatshield, all glory be to
   God, ensuring, as well, a victory in global currency exchange.

   "Alack! I am bested, and fall heavy to the ground, and must therefore
   renegotiate the terms of special exchange between our nations when
   managing debts that predate conversion to the new EU standard," quoth
   Willem-Alexander as he tumbled from his steed, acknowledging his
   opponent the better man and meeting his fate with honour. "In sooth, a
   rate of 1.75 euros to the pound is more than fair, with interest
   compounding from the date of this match forward, so mighty is the
   stroke that undoes me."
   [5]Enlarge Image Prince William jump 

   Magnanimous in victory, as befits the heir to the Throne of All
   England, Prince William did forsake the cries of bloodlust from the
   lower galleries, granting the Dutch prince the boon of his life and
   demanding in return only a 4.5 percent increase in durable-goods
   tariffs on imports from the Netherlands and her subject nations.

   "Hear me, O Britain!" exclaimed His Royal Highness, whose voice was
   heard to peal forth from the lists as thunder from great
   mountain-height, ringing in every corner of that green and pleasant
   land, as well as on BBC Two and internationally on ESPN, garnering a
   nod of approval from the Queen, who gazed on regally from the royal
   box. "This man hath proven himself worthy of our mercy. For to fall in
   joust before the Crown Prince of England--the very herald of God on
   Earth--is no shame; nor would I call foeman any prince who hath the
   strength to acknowledge Jesus as his Saviour and to hold inflation to
   a stunningly low 1.3 percent. Therefore I spare his life, and call my
   noble cousin mere cousin no more, but brother, in hopes our fair
   nations may find brotherhood indeed."

   And 'spite a fortnight full of tragic news that wicked Fate had split
   the comely pair, the noble Prince William did grant a victory nosegay
   to his former love, the beauteous Kate Middleton, who with wet and
   melancholy eye did the prince's gaze avoid, as befits a commoner.

   "Hail to the crown prince of our fair isles, hail!" said Herald-Royal
   Anthony the Blair, Grand Vizier of the Realm, Prime Minister of All
   Britain, and Officiary of the Games, upon presenting Prince William
   with the Cheltenham Tournament Virgin Atlantic Trophy. "For he has
   made the doughty enemy void his saddle, and hight him upon his very
   fud; and many a rude and glorious tale shall be of this day's deeds
   retold."

   "Such feats of brawn and bravery have we scarce beheld since Prince's
   father, Charles of Wales, did ride forth in errantry, and did in
   single combat meet, and unhorsing humiliate, sundry knights of the
   Falkland Islands," added Blair with a hearty heavenward thrust of his
   gauntled fist.

   Upon being relieved of his helm, breastplate, and greaves by his
   trusty squires the Minister of State for Trade and Her Majesty's
   Ambassador to the Netherlands, the prince did declare a feast day and
   order the roasting of a fatted ox. The beast was shared out in equal
   parts among all freedmen in attendance, and small beer and brown ale
   was given forth in full fair measure. A fine and merry bawd did last
   until the rising of Tuesday's sun brought forth the cock's cry,
   heralding once again a round of bold and robust trading on the London
   Stock Exchange, so well delighted and put at ease by the day's events
   Albion's investors were.

   Also late from the Netherlands came grave tidings that Prince
   Willem-Alexander hath suffered wounds diverse and mortal, and that he
   ails sick abed i'the Amsterdam Medical Center, where doctors are
   struggling with all their art against profuse hemmorhaging cerebral
   and abdominal.


   WASHINGTON--With more American military casualties in 2007 than any
   year since the war began, a bipartisan group of House representatives
   introduced a bill Monday that calls for nearly 4,000 U.S. soldiers who
   have been killed in Iraq to be brought back to life.
   [4]Enlarge Image Legislators 

   Cosponsors John Boehner, left, and Bruce Braley, middle, told
   reporters how the bill would make everything all better Tuesday.

   "These brave men and women gave their lives for our country," Rep.
   Wayne Gilchrest (R-MD), a cosponsor of the bill, told Congress
   yesterday. "The least we can do is give them back."

   Though most Democrats and Republicans remain deadlocked on the issue
   of a possible troop withdrawal, leaders on both sides have been able
   to agree that bringing thousands of soldiers back from the dead and
   returning them home to their families, alive and well, like nothing
   ever happened, is the "only honorable choice."

   "Our proposal would completely change the course of the conflict from
   hundreds of people dying every day to everyone suddenly being alive
   again," said Rep. Bruce Braley (D-IA), donning a "Support Our
   Troops--Bring 'Em Back From The Dead" ribbon. "This will not only
   improve morale at home and abroad, but will also make everything all
   better."

   "I think we can all agree that making everything all better would
   vastly improve the situation in Iraq," Braley added.

   The bill, H.R. 702, stipulates that immediately upon its passage into
   law, the 4,000 brave soldiers who have lost their lives in Iraq come
   marching triumphantly over the horizon, directly into the arms of
   their loved ones, looking the same as they did on the day they left
   home. Article II, Section 3 of the bill requires that each soldier be
   carrying one apple pie, to be consumed in full with family members as
   they sit around the dinner table and laugh and sing. A proviso in
   Article III states that everything will go back to the way it was
   before.
   [5]Enlarge Image Supporters 

   Supporters of the bill march in New York.

   The bill would also prohibit troops currently stationed in Iraq from
   ever dying.

   According to House minority leader John Boehner (R-OH), the measure,
   already long overdue, is the most effective way to ensure that the
   growing casualty rate in Iraq is instantly reversed and reduced to
   zero.

   "How much longer are we going to let these troops stay deceased? Two
   years? Three years? Forever?" Boehner said. "If we allow this to
   happen, then the insurgents have already won."

   Added Boehner: "Thousands have made the ultimate sacrifice. Let's make
   sure they are repaid for that sacrifice in kind."

   Though the bill enjoys broad support, a number of politicians have
   claimed the move is shortsighted and could destabilize the region if
   the reanimated bodies of the U.S. military returned to the living
   world as undead ghouls devoid of consciousness. Braley, however,
   dismissed such fears.

   "I assure the American people that the reborn troops will appear just
   as alive and vital as they did mere moments before they were killed.
   In no way will they be an unholy abomination of undead flesh," Braley
   said.

   Scheduled to be put to a vote in December, the bill has endured
   numerous setbacks, including fierce debate over which soldier should
   be brought back to life first, a core of Republicans who say they will
   only vote yes on the condition that the reanimated troops are
   immediately redeployed to Iraq, and Sen. Ted Stevens' (R-AK) multiple
   attempts to tack a rider onto the bill that would bring back his dead
   wife.

   Though the bill is expected to pass the House, some Senators claim
   suddenly bringing back thousands of deceased Americans might send the
   wrong message to America's enemies.

   "The tide in Iraq is turning," Sen. Joseph Lieberman (ID-CT) said.
   "American men and women dying in droves has worked thus far--it is not
   time to abandon this strategy."

   Congress is also expected to begin drafting legislation that would
   completely heal all 28,385 wounded U.S. soldiers. If passed into law,
   any troops who have lost limbs to amputation, infection, or car-bomb
   explosions can expect their arms and legs to grow back within six
   months. In addition, the bill would guarantee that those suffering
   from post-traumatic stress disorder will not have post-traumatic
   stress disorder anymore.

   Even if the measure passes both the House and Senate, however,
   President Bush has promised to veto the bill.

   Leskanic

   BOSTON--The Boston Red Sox, who have failed to win a single World
   Series since the departure of relief pitcher Curtis Leskanic in 2004,
   are attempting to defy the odds and do the impossible: reverse the
   curse of the journeyman reliever whose ghost has haunted this team
   since the mid-2000s.

   Pitted against the Colorado Rockies in the 2007 Fall Classic, the team
   that for two long years seemed like it might be destined to lose
   forever has a chance to finally put an end to its 36-month-long World
   Series drought. However, the Red Sox must first overcome the famed
   Curse of Curtis Leskanic, which caused medium-to-long-suffering fans
   much anguish and heartache during the period between 2005 and 2006.

   "It will take a miracle for the Sox to win the World Series as long as
   the spirit of Leskanic has anything to say about it," wrote Boston
   Globe columnist Dan Shaughnessy, who coined the phrase "Curse Of The
   Former Red Sox Relief Pitcher Curtis Leskanic" in March of 2005, when
   an error by shortstop Edgar Renteria allowed the Devil Rays to defeat
   the Red Sox 7-4 in a spring training game. "This curse will play a
   huge part in this series. Every home run that curves just foul, every
   dropped fly ball, every bad hop, every blown call--Curtis Leskanic
   will be there."

   Leskanic, a right-handed set-up man acquired by the Red Sox halfway
   through the 2004 season, pitched nearly 28 innings for the team from
   July to September, and was present as Boston defeated the Yankees in
   the ALCS and went on the win the World Series. However, as legend has
   it, the Red Sox refused to offer him a contract extension, despite the
   fact that he was coming off a 3-5 season with a 5.19 ERA and 37
   strikeouts. Leskanic, unable to find work in the major leagues,
   retired--and the rest is history. Since then, the Florida Little
   League team that Leskanic went on to coach has enjoyed unprecedented
   success, winning the Lake County Round Robin two years in a row and
   going undefeated in 2006.

   Meanwhile, the Red Sox have made it to the playoffs just twice since
   2004.

   "I don't usually believe in 'curses,' but how else do you explain the
   Red Sox's early elimination from the 2005 Division Series, or their
   five-game sweep at the hands of the Yankees last August, or the fact
   that they didn't even make the playoffs in 2006?" said longtime Red
   Sox fan Gary Everett. "No team is that unlucky."

   "We never should've gotten rid of Leskanic," Everett added. "Just
   think of how many more rings we'd have now."

   "When [White Sox outfielder Scott] Podsednik hit that home run in Game
   1 of the 2005 ALDS, all I could think was, 'Damn you, Leskanic!'" said
   Allston, MA resident Terry Bresler. "But if the Sox can beat the
   Rockies this year, I might be able to finally forgive Tony Graffanino
   for that error he made in Game 2 of that series."

   In an interesting twist of fate, to end the curse, the Red Sox must
   first beat the Rockies, the team with which Leskanic began his career
   in 1993. Many fans believe destiny brought these two teams
   together--that it is only fitting that the Red Sox must exorcise the
   demons of their recent past against the very team with which Leskanic
   enjoyed his greatest success, including his 7-5, 6.23 ERA season in
   1996 and his 1-1 effort in 1994.

   "Ending the curse against the Rockies will just make it that much
   sweeter," said Boston resident Terry McMahon. "Not even Curtis
   Leskanic can stop this team!"

   "I just pray that my son can see the Sox win at least one World Series
   in his lifetime," said Boston resident Sal Fischer of his son Cody, 2.

   Many Red Sox fans believe the Curse of Curtis Leskanic was already
   broken this June when two diehard Red Sox fans traveled to Leskanic's
   childhood home in Homestead, PA and burned it to the ground, while
   others think the curse was lifted in August when the Red Sox won three
   games in a row. Still others believe that the ghost of Leskanic was
   expelled from Boston in April, when Jimmy Buffett played to a sold-out
   crowd at Fenway Park; Leskanic was known for not being that into Jimmy
   Buffett.

   Curtis Leskanic currently resides in Orlando, FL with his family, and
   works as a pro scouting consultant in the Red Sox organization. When
   reached for comment, he wished the Red Sox the best of luck.


   LOS ANGELES--A study released today by the University of California,
   Los Angeles is sending shockwaves through the social, behavioral, and
   publicity sciences, after finding that everyone in Hollywood is close
   personal friends with everyone else in Hollywood.
   [4]Enlarge Image hollywood 

   Cameron Diaz, George Clooney, Julia Roberts, and Denzel Washingon all
   gather for a game of Monopoly at Tony Hopkins' place, like they do
   every Sunday.

   "The evidence shows that our nation's show-business capital is a town
   of virtually boundless goodwill and camaraderie, where the
   backstabbing, ego-rivalry, and grudge-holding common to the rest of
   society do not exist," said UCLA sociology professor Gina Carlisle,
   lead author of the five-year, 700-page study. "The entire region is a
   veritable utopia of deep, abiding interpersonal affection and mutual
   respect."

   Additionally, the report found that 98 percent of Hollywood residents
   "love [their friends'] work."

   The findings, published this month in the journal American
   Psychologist, were based on information culled from DVD commentary
   tracks, promotional junket footage, talk show appearances, more than
   1,500 behind-the-scenes magazine profiles, and hundreds of poolside
   cocktail party conversations.

   "I love David Caruso," said Caruso's CSI: Miami costar Khandi
   Alexander, one of thousands of celebrity best friends quoted in the
   study. "He's just a great guy--always joking around on the set, making
   the crew laugh, and just being an all-around wonderful person. At
   first I thought it would be intimidating to work with such an iconic
   star, but after a few days, I thought of him as a great friend."

   But the intense friendships that run through the Hollywood community
   also extend to those beyond the red-carpet elite, the study found.

   "Even persons with relatively limited connections to the Hollywood
   hierarchy, such as caterers and valet attendants, regularly cited such
   A-list celebrities as George Clooney as their 'good friends,'" said
   UCLA's Carlisle, who herself described Clooney as "a friend." "No one
   is excluded from the near-universal circle of intimacy and brotherhood
   that surrounds the city."

   "It is a truly egoless culture," she added.

   According to the study, friendships formed in Hollywood are stronger,
   more passionate, and more meaningful than any friendships yet
   measured.

   "While we were making Transformers, the whole cast and crew were like
   family," actress Megan Fox said in an Access Hollywood episode cited
   by the study. "I would totally love to work with those people again if
   the decision is ever made to do a sequel. That's how much those
   friendships mean to me."

   Hollywood friendships are also longer lasting, researchers found.

   Producer Gil Netter, also quoted in the study, expressed these
   sentiments about some of his many best friends: "When we did Dude
   [Where's My Car?], Ashton [Kutcher], Jennifer [Garner], and Seann
   [William Scott] were just on the verge of exploding. Since then,
   they've all become much bigger stars, but to me they're still just the
   same great friends of mine they always were."

   The study's authors say if research continues, the principles of
   social interaction found in Hollywood could, one day, serve as an
   example to the rest of humanity of how to live together in harmony and
   universal love.

   "Bad-mouthing others' work, looking down on those who earn less money
   than oneself, making insulting assumptions about the amount of plastic
   surgery others have had--none of these things happen in Hollywood,"
   Carlisle said. "It is a city of total and unconditional respect, both
   for the integrity of everyone's creative endeavors, and for everyone
   personally, as human beings."

   Added Carlisle: "If every community could interact with the same
   genuine compassion and goodwill that Hollywood has somehow achieved,
   the world would be a much better place."


   MANCHESTER, NH--Rumors are swirling among Beltway insiders that the
   Patterson family vacation last weekend to New Hampshire, site of the
   first presidential primary, was, in fact, an attempt by the Michigan
   family of four to test the waters for a 2008 presidential run.
   [4]Enlarge Image Paterson Family 

   The Patterson family impresses locals with their "charm and dignity."

   The Pattersons reportedly spent most of their three-day stay in the
   Granite State--known for its ability to make or break a
   candidate--interacting with locals, visiting key landmarks, and,
   according to political observers, using the outing to showcase their
   message of strong family values. They were seen taking a guided tour
   of a maple-sugar house in Barrington as well as stopping for countless
   photo opportunities outside government buildings in Concord and at
   other sites around the state.

   "No one knew they were planning to throw their hat in the ring,"
   Boston Globe columnist Scott Lehigh said. "They've obviously been
   planning this trip for months, maybe even as long as a year. They
   managed to squeeze countless side trips into an almost impossibly
   tight schedule, including a skiing outing at Pats Peak to their stop
   and a stop at the Hannah Duston monument in Penacook."

   Pundits said the family's slow drive through Bear Brook State Park
   signaled a deep concern for environmental issues, while their decision
   to attend Sunday services at the New Castle Congregational Church
   acted as a nod to the country's important bloc of religious voters.
   The Pattersons also strolled the shopping districts of wealthy
   Portsmouth, showing their ability to relate to a cross-section of
   Americans.
   [5]Enlarge Image Paterson Family 

   The Patterson family visits the Nutfield Brewery in Derry, NH

   "They looked very presidential," Lehigh said.

   Phil Patterson, appearing relaxed but dignified in a black jacket,
   gray slacks, and open-collar white shirt, made sure to carry the items
   he purchased from a local Nashua antiquary himself, smiling broadly
   during several trips back and forth to his minivan. When asked by
   locals why the family was in town, Patterson downplayed the visit,
   saying that he was just introducing his children to the "great state
   of New Hampshire."

   "A lot of nice folks around here," Janice Patterson said, shaking
   hands with Beefside Family Restaurant owner Jim Day after a meal the
   family called "really good." According to Day, they left a very
   generous tip and told him their waitress "couldn't have been
   friendlier."

   "They were just really down to earth," Day said.

   Despite the growing buzz about their candidacy, some, such as CNN
   political analyst Bill Schneider, say the family's lack of political
   experience is a setback. Phil, 49, is a pediatrician; Janice, 47, a
   homemaker, graduated from the University of Connecticut with a history
   degree; and Wesley, 19, and Phil Jr., 17, have been widely criticized
   for their youth. Likewise, the family has yet to form an exploratory
   committee, and, almost all observers agree that, with a combined
   annual income of less than $70,000, they are already at a serious
   fund-raising disadvantage. They were also roundly chided by the media
   after a major misstep in which Phil Jr. referred to the historic
   Shaker Village in Canterbury as "sucky."

   "The Pattersons have an uphill climb, that's for sure," said political
   analyst George Stephanopoulos on his ABC program This Week. "But this
   New Hampshire trip vaults them onto the national stage, sending the
   message that they are serious about '08. All that's left now is the
   paperwork."

   "Honestly, who in their right mind would visit the Audubon Society of
   New Hampshire if they weren't running for office?" he added.

   Experts are already debating how the Pattersons stack up against early
   front-runners John McCain, Barack Obama, and Hillary Clinton. All
   agree that it will depend on how New Hampshirites respond to their
   visit.

   "The Pattersons are masterful at crafting the image of the everyday
   middle-class family," Washington Post reporter Dan Balz said. "They
   are likeable, and that will often resonate with voters more than
   experience."

   Added Balz: "But the American people should start asking themselves
   what a Patterson family presidency would mean for this country."

   Sources close to the family say the family will soon visit Janice
   Patterson's aging mother in Iowa--home to the first-in-the-nation
   presidential caucus--where many are predicting the family will
   formally announce their candidacy.

   "She's very ill," Mrs. Patterson said of her mother and the carefully
   planned trip. "I don't think she'll be with us much longer."


   WASHINGTON, DC--A U.S. Department of Education report released Monday
   reveals that school shootings leave students significantly better
   prepared for the random gunfire and everyday killing sprees that await
   them in the larger world.
     School Shootings R

   A camera-phone picture taken by a student shows her remarkable ability
   to avoid the line of fire during her first shooting.

   According to the report, students exposed to gunfire during college
   not only had an easier time finding suitable cover later on in life,
   but also fared better in  a number of high-pressure situations, such
   as having a rifle cocked to their head.

   "Shootings provide students with a wide range of real-world skills,
   from thinking critically after having both kneecaps blown out, to
   communicating effectively while begging desperately for one's life,"
   Education Secretary Margaret Spellings said. "Indeed, many of these
   lessons will continue to serve today's graduates long after they've
   been evacuated from school."

   Unlike science, math, and liberal arts courses, which Spellings said
   had little real impact on a student's ability to jump out of a
   second-story window and rush to a cordon of awaiting police vehicles
   and ambulances, school shootings supply seniors with the practical
   knowledge they'll need to hit the ground running after graduation.

   "There was a time when just studying hard and getting good grades
   meant that you'd be all right in the world," Spellings said.
   "Unfortunately, that's not nearly as important today as having the
   right connections or knowing when to put added pressure on your
   midsection to prevent your innards from spilling out."

   Teamwork and time-management abilities are also enhanced in a
   massacre-based educational environment, the report found. Students get
   the opportunity to work together in large, sobbing groups, whether
   praying for help or persuading each other to play dead, and learn to
   maximize limited amounts of time, even seconds, for crucial tasks like
   fleeing.

   The findings also revealed that school attacks often mark the first
   time underclassmen start thinking seriously about their future.
   Important psychological developments occur as well, especially in
   students at the high school or elementary school level.

   "The sooner kids face the frenzied onslaught of semi-automatic
   gunfire, the sooner they'll develop the jumpy reactions to sudden
   noises and movements that will help them anticipate and react to gun
   attacks years down the line," said Diane Gallo, director of the
   organization No Wounded Child Left Behind. "After all, what hope do
   our children have of succeeding if they're not constantly terrified of
   being shot dead?"

   Aside from providing recent graduates with the tools they'll need to
   meet the often rigorous demands of crazed gunmen in the workplace,
   school shootings have also been shown to benefit those who choose to
   join the military after high school.

   "I can't believe I used to kick and scream about being shot at in
   school," said Army Pfc. John Hodge, 19, who graduated last year and is
   currently stationed in Baghdad. "If it weren't for everything I
   learned in Ms. Sarai's class--may her soul rest in peace--I don't how
   I'd be able to get through a normal week."

   Some parents of students who experienced high school shootings have
   also noticed a substantial difference.

   "Before he attended Riverside Academy, I used to always worry about
   how Jason was going to fend for himself out in the real world," said
   Theresa Eibelman of her 16-year-old son. "Now, I know--by barring the
   door to the library with a bookshelf and warning people in other rooms
   to leave the school immediately."

   Despite the report's conclusions, some citizens are skeptical about
   the productive side of school shootings, calling them "pointless,"
   "disruptive," and "something that doesn't belong in our schools."

   "No daughter of mine is going to go to some awful school with
   psychotic gunmen roaming around," said David Lee Sykes, a Roanoke, VA
   resident and father of three young children. "My Jennifer is going to
   learn about taking a bullet the old-fashioned way: from her mother and
   father."


   CHICAGO--According to a groundbreaking new study published Monday in
   The Journal Of The American Statistical Association, somewhere on the
   planet someone is totally doing it at this very moment.
   [4]Enlarge Image Scientists 

   Scientists told reporters someone could be doing it right next door.

   "Of the 6.7 billion inhabitants of Earth, approximately 3.5 billion
   have reached sexual maturity," said Dr. Jerome Carver, a mathematics
   professor at the University of Chicago and lead author of the study.
   "From a statistical perspective, it simply stands to reason that at
   least two of these inhabitants are totally going at it right now.
   Like, as we speak."

   "But it's probably way more than that," Carver added. "Like at least a
   hundred."

   The multidiscipline study, which tapped leading experts in several
   fields, including reproduction and population sciences, found
   overwhelming evidence that there is never even a second when someone
   is not doing it.

   An analysis of the data, based on a new statistical model referred to
   as "Rauchembauer's Overlap," indicates that, given the sheer number of
   people in the world, by the time the first set of people is done doing
   it, someone else has already begun getting it on.

   In addition, the findings suggest that there is a "good, to very good"
   chance that someone is doing it close by.

   "The nearer you get to major metropolitan areas, the more likely you
   are to be in proximity to those making it," said California Institute
   of Technology probability theorist Howard Bergsson, who contributed to
   the report. "For example, we're in Chicago, a city of three million
   people. Someone is probably doing it right down the street, or maybe
   even somewhere in this building."
   [5]Enlarge Image Report 

   "And even if they're not, you have to keep in mind that it's nighttime
   in England right now," Bergsson added. "So someone is, in all
   likelihood, doing it over there."

   While exciting in its own right, the new revelation has also lent
   credibility to several long-held theories, including the idea that
   those doing it are either partially or totally naked, and that the
   doing it itself may in large part involve a process known as
   "humping."

   Citing the global population boom, Carver went on to demonstrate a
   strong correlation between rising birth rates and the new doing-it
   probability model.

   "Roughly 350,000 babies are born every day," said Carver, who is
   currently working on a new report entitled "Making It: A Comprehensive
   Survey Of Sexy Stuff Happening All Over The Place." "And how does that
   happen? I'm telling you, people are just getting it on like
   crazy--just all the time."

   "Think about it," Carver continued.

   Carver said the most important aspect of the study is that it accounts
   for variables often overlooked in earlier inquiries, an error which
   may have resulted in a much lower estimation of the worldwide
   frequency of going at it.

   "Other studies addressing this phenomenon made the faulty assumption
   that people only do it in bed," Carver said. "But people can do it
   anywhere. Sometimes even in the shower. Or the basement."

   According to observers, the study's secondary findings are in some
   ways even more surprising: Given the fact that not everyone goes all
   the way all the time, the report predicts that there are at least four
   times as many people currently frenching or getting to second base
   than there are doing it.

   "The number of people being felt up right now is astronomical," Carver
   said.

   Though the evidence presented by the study appears to be irrefutable,
   it has already found its share of detractors within the scientific
   community.

   "No way," said Dr. Lane Keilor, a professor of theoretical mathematics
   at the University of Rochester in New York. "Gross."


   MISSOULA, MT--University of Montana wildlife biologist and Herbert R.
   Braithwaite Foundation research grant recipient Dr. James Neuthom has
   spent his entire $275,000 grant--intended for the study of whirling
   disease on rainbow trout--on such items as a 15-foot sailboat, scented
   stationery, and several dozen boxes of chocolate, according to
   documents he submitted to the foundation Tuesday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Research Grant 

   Neuthom spent $7,000 on a trip with Hamilton to Lake Tahoe, which
   contains no trout.

   Neuthom is now seeking additional Braithwaite Foundation funds to
   continue his desperate attempt to win the heart of his 23-year-old
   research assistant, Betsy Hamilton.

   "During the course of my project, I have encountered some unforeseen
   but truly vital expenses," read the introduction to Neuthom's 47-page
   project proposal, which details predicted outlays through 2008, most
   notably an additional $60,000 in "part-time female research-assistant
   salaries." "This money is needed to continue the very important work
   I'm doing with Betsy, who is a talented and beautiful young woman."
     Hamilton

   Hamilton

   The application also noted increased travel and laboratory expenses
   for the upcoming year, including first-class airfare and luxury
   accommodations for two to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
   Administration's annual convention, a powerful telescope "perfect for
   warm, starry June evenings," and $275 for a custom-made, tailored lab
   coat.

   Representatives for the Braithwaite Foundation are currently reviewing
   Neuthom's expenditures, and have not yet decided whether to contribute
   further money to his studies.

   "We're impressed with all the energy Dr. Neuthom has poured into this
   endeavor already, but he insists much, much more work needs to be done
   before he produces any definitive results," foundation director Ted
   Sengupta said. "Before funding his new proposal, we'd like to see what
   discoveries he made while studying 'the effect of moonlight on
   Montana's native trout populations,' which he chose to research on a
   quiet, isolated lake 150 miles away from the established site of his
   study."

   "We're sure he has a good reason, but $1,500 for a singing Italian
   gondolier seems a bit curious," Sengupta added.

   Sengupta said that, in the Braithwaite Foundation's long history of
   funding ecological research, he has never seen an aquatic wildlife
   study require so many fresh-cut flowers.

   Sources at the University of Montana say they have rarely encountered
   an established researcher as generous as Neuthom, who often spends
   long hours in the lab with his young assistant, helping her
   participate in every aspect of the study, even those for which she is
   not technically qualified. He also frequently offers to drive Hamilton
   home in the Wildlife Research Center's newly acquired Corvette.

   "I thought that grant would last Jim [Neuthom] at least two years, but
   I simply didn't realize how many hot-air balloon rides, CDs, and
   spontaneous dinners at tiny French restaurants are required for an
   in-depth trout study," said UM professor of agriculture Steven
   Czymedia, who claimed he was "fascinated" by Neuthom's new theory that
   fine champagne might be directly related to rainbow trout migratory
   routes. "The subject is obviously very near and dear to his heart.
   I've never seen him so excited. I wish him the best."

   Hamilton, who plans to list her involvement with the project on her
   medical school applications next year, could not be reached for
   comment. However, her roommate, Kelly Deem, said she believes Hamilton
   has enjoyed her experience as a research assistant, since the flexible
   schedule works around her classes and allows her to spend more time
   with her fianc.

   According to the Braithwaite Foundation's internal auditor Michael
   Romero, if Neuthom has misused funds, the organization will take
   appropriate measures.

   "We have a team carefully examining every receipt submitted by Dr.
   Neuthom over the last few months," Romero said. "If anything untoward
   has happened here, my assistant, Emily will find it. She's really
   quite something, you know."


   OMAHA, NE--A casual greeting, delivered offhandedly by operations
   consultant Adam Harding, 27, triggered a 45-minute response from
   32-year-old executive assistant Peter Sullivan on Monday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Rhetorical Pleasantry 

   Stranded by coworker Peter Sullivan for nearly an hour, Adam Harding
   refilled his Dixie cup 21 times.

   According to Harding, his five-word pleasantry, reportedly "Hey man,
   how's it going?" was merely intended to acknowledge the physical
   presence of his colleague. Yet Harding, who has been employed by
   Morgan Consulting Partners since November, quickly found himself in an
   overly personal, seemingly unending one-sided conversation with
   Sullivan in a narrow hallway.

   "I remember him answering 'Not so good, man, not so good, it's one
   thing after another,' and I almost kept walking by him, but then I
   realized he was continuing to speak," Harding said.

   Sullivan embarked on a detailed account of the events of his weekend,
   highlighted by an incident Sunday in which his 2002 Toyota Corolla
   broke down when he was on the way to a veterinary clinic with his sick
   cat.

   "I guess his cat swallowed something or had distemper or whatever,"
   Harding said. "Then he talked about some warranty issue with the car,
   like the warranty had lapsed but he still had some sort of claim
   because some part was defective, and then he told this really long
   story about getting to the vet."

   After several further cat-related anecdotes, Sullivan somehow arrived
   at the subject of the minor lower-back pain that has plagued him
   throughout the winter.

   "I gotta..." said Harding, gesturing in the direction of his cubicle
   as Sullivan cited various possible causes for the back pain, including
   his workload, the company's "shitty chairs," and stress brought on by
   a recent telephone conversation with his mother.

   "Uh-huh," Harding added after six minutes of quiet nodding.

   Harding's several attempts to extricate himself from the monologue,
   including checking his cell phone every 30 to 40 seconds and shooting
   wide-eyed looks of exasperation at any coworker who walked past,
   either went unnoticed or were disregarded by Sullivan. As the
   monologue continued, Harding increasingly felt the need to urinate.

   "I thought things were finally winding down when he said 'Anyway,' but
   then he began mentioning problems he's been having with his
   girlfriend," Harding said. "When he looked right at me and put his
   hand on my shoulder, I knew I was in it for the long haul."

   Harding admitted that he "botched" a chance to escape when Sullivan
   paused briefly as he recalled the last time he and his girlfriend had
   "really gone out and had a good time together." Harding said that he
   did manage to wordlessly open and close his mouth a couple times in
   the brief interim.

   A mournful sigh seven minutes later allowed Harding the opportunity to
   say he was going to get a glass of water, prompting Sullivan to invite
   himself along to "stretch [his] legs." To Harding's dismay, the
   hydration only served to further stimulate Sullivan's thought
   processes.

   "He called me into a nearby stairwell, and started in on this whole
   new thing about work itself, how everybody's always playing politics,
   and 'witch hunts' and 'backstabbing' and that sort of stuff," Harding
   said. "He said he was only saying these things because I was the only
   one who really seemed to 'get' him, and that no one talks to him
   anymore, probably because he's 'on to them.'"

   As Sullivan said that he was "convinced" that the office web-page
   blocking policy was directly due to his supervisor walking in on him
   while he was reading an online gossip blog, a blocked ID call came in
   on Harding's cell phone. Characterizing the call as one he "absolutely
   needed to get," Harding quickly excused himself, even finding a
   bathroom on another floor of the building to lessen the chance of
   encountering Sullivan again.

   The salutation and resulting litany marked the second time the two had
   ever spoken.

   According to office sources, later that afternoon Sullivan engaged a
   front-office receptionist with an hour-long recollection of the
   tribulations he faced during middle school.


   POLOKWANE, SOUTH AFRICA--After three rainy seasons together, a black
   rhinoceros and a parasite-eating tickbird are beginning to suspect
   that their symbiotic relationship has fallen into a rut, the couple
   reported Sunday.

   "We're really symbiotic--almost too symbiotic," the rhino said. "It's
   just gotten so predictable lately that I'm starting to wonder, 'Is
   this all there is?'"
   [4]Enlarge Image Rhino Tickbird 

   The rhino and tickbird pass another morning on the African savannah
   not saying one word to each other.

   First meeting at a local watering hole in 2004, both creatures
   immediately saw themselves as natural for one other and, in the words
   of the rhino, felt something "new, gratifying, and mutually
   beneficial." Within hours, the tickbird had moved into the rhino's
   habitat and set up house on his thick hide.

   But as time went on, it slowly dawned on the couple that their
   partnership was perhaps merely one of convenience.

    "I admit, when we first got together, I was a total mess," the rhino
   said. "She really helped me clean up my act. But we've been together
   so long now that I always know exactly what she's going to do next."

   Devouring horsefly larvae embedded in her 3,000-pound partner's back,
   the tickbird seemed to agree that there was little fire left in their
   symbiotic relationship. At worst, she said, it feels like she and the
   rhino have been trapped in the same dead-end symbiosis for "countless
   millions of years."

   "We just go through the motions, and there's hardly any
   communication," the tickbird said. "And we do it the exact same way
   every time. I get on top and take the parasites off while he just lays
   there."

   "Feed off the embedded ticks on his hide, chirp when the predators
   come. Feed off the embedded ticks on his hide, chirp when the
   predators come. Where's the passion, the heat?" the tickbird
   continued.

   The tickbird also accused the rhino of trying to make her "feel
   small."

   "He doesn't realize everything I do for him," the tickbird said. "If
   it wasn't for my 'incessant squawking,' as he calls it, he would be
   shot by poachers before he even saw them coming."

   Both creatures separately expressed envy of their neighbors, a plover
   and crocodile, who "never seem to have the problems we do," the rhino
   said.

   "That crocodile appreciates having his teeth cleaned, and he makes
   sure she knows," the tickbird said. "Look at that big grin."

   The rhino said that he often feels like a victim of her nitpicking.

   "I might look tough, but I have feelings," the rhino said. "I give her
   plenty to eat and a great place to perch, but it feels like she's
   constantly pecking an open wound. Ugh, why can't we just be friends
   with mutualistic benefits?"

   The frustration has caused the pair to act out in passive-aggressive
   ways. The rhino will frequently charge without warning, jarring the
   tickbird from her perch. Meanwhile, the tickbird often deliberately
   embarrasses her partner by speculating aloud about a symbiotic
   relationship with a cape buffalo or zebra, often within earshot of
   those species.

   According to a nearby elephant, this sense of stagnancy commonly
   occurs in symbiotic partnerships across sub-Saharan Africa.

   "The rhino and tickbird may have evolved physiologically to meet each
   other's needs, but it's clear they haven't evolved emotionally," the
   elephant said. "They need to recognize that in order to go forward.
   The rhino's loud snorting  is very alienating. And obviously the
   tickbird is projecting her own feelings of inadequacy when she
   criticizes the rhino for being a typical Diceros bicornis."

   For all their friction, both creatures conceded that they weren't sure
   they could actually live without each other.

   "I don't know why we stay together," the rhino said. "I guess we're
   just creatures of instinctual habit."


   JAMESTOWN, NY-- NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell announced in a press
   conference yesterday that the NFL Code of Conduct would be tightened
   further after several NFL players blatantly disobeyed the league's
   long-standing policy of not playing ball in Goodell's house and broke
   his priceless flower-print Chinese porcelain vase--a family heirloom
   that had been passed down from generation to generation of Goodells
   and which Goodell counted among his most prized possessions.
   [4]Enlarge Image Roger Goodell 

   "The fact that they defied me is rather annoying. Now, boys will be
   boys--I understand that," Goodell told reporters outside his home
   Monday morning. "What disappointed me the most, and what ultimately
   led to their punishment, was the fact that they tried to cover it up
   instead of just being honest and up front about what happened to my
   vase."

   "I can't believe they thought I wouldn't even notice," he added,
   displaying the sloppily re-glued and duct-taped vase to reporters.
   "I'm just going to have to be stricter with them until they realize
   they're just hurting themselves with this behavior."

   According to sources in the NFL Players Association, a casual game of
   catch started when Pacman Jones, Tank Johnson, and Michael Vick, all
   present at Goodells' residence to meet with the commissioner
   concerning their recent behavior,  innocently ran down the stairs into
   Goodell's living room. All three players say that, just before they
   were about to turn on the television, Jones asked Vick to pass him the
   football. Though Vick later claimed he was hesitant to do so in light
   of Goodell's strict household rule, he eventually acquiesced to
   Jones's request after being told to "not be such a girl."

   After several successful catches, Jones reportedly let a pass rebound
   off his fingertips towards the corner of the room, where it struck the
   vase, knocked it off the side table next to the couch where Goodell
   displayed it, and sent it crashing to the floor.

   When the vase broke, Jones said, all three players stood in shocked
   silence with their mouths agape, knowing full well that they had not
   only broken one of their commissioner's strictest household rules, but
   also his most cherished possession.

   "We knew we were in for it," Vick said, "but most of all we felt bad
   for Pacman, who was all set to go on a camping trip the next day. If
   Mr. Goodell found out it was Pacman who broke the vase, there was no
   way he would let him go, so we had to step up."

   Though their attempts to foil the commissioner would ultimately prove
   futile, Vick and Jones sprung into action, found some superglue in
   Goodell's kitchen, and began gluing the vase back together. Tank
   Johnson reportedly rushed into town to see if he could find a
   replacement vase in case the glue didn't set properly before Goodell
   returned from a meeting that was to end in less than two hours.

   At this point, Vick said, other NFL players including Joey Porter,
   Peyton Manning, Troy Polamalu, Steve McNair, Michael Strahan, and
   Clinton Portis had returned from practice, and were stunned when they
   found Goodell's vase in disrepair.

   "See, this is exactly why he told us never to play ball in the house,"
   said Manning, who was repeatedly informed by the other players that if
   he told on Jones he would be beaten up. "I feel bad for lying to
   commissioner Goodell, and I hope he forgives me. But I can understand
   if he decides to hate me forever."

   "Tank came back with a vase, and we thought we were home free, but it
   looked nothing like commissioner's," Straham said. "Sure, it was blue
   and white and Chinese-looking, but there were all these flowers on it,
   the trim didn't look right, and the blue color was all fucked up."

   According to Vick, everyone actually assumed the glue idea might work
   until they saw car lights coming from outside the kitchen window and
   heard the garage door open, forcing them to conclude the hasty repairs
   with several feet of duct tape in the hopes the taped side could be
   turned towards the wall.

   "The commissioner came home a whole damn hour early," Vick said.
   "Turned out his meeting, or whatever, ran short. We were thinking that
   maybe if we put the vase back where it was, turned off the table lamp
   it sits next to, and positioned it so the crack wasn't showing, the
   commissioner wouldn't notice. By morning, hopefully, the glue would
   set and we would all be in the clear. Boy, were we wrong."

   According to Vick, the vase sprung a leak through one of its cracks
   during dinner, which angered Goodell as he realized that of the 15 NFL
   players who were present for the meal, several of them had indeed been
   playing ball in the house while he was away.

   "I didn't want Pacman to get in trouble so I took the blame," Joey
   Porter said, unaware that Johnson, Polamalu, Vick, McNair, Straham,
   Portis, and Manning had themselves also taken the blame in separate
   closed-door interviews in an attempt to cover for Jones. "He'd been
   looking forward to going on that camping trip all week."

   According to Goodell, when Jones was the only one not to confess, he
   realized Jones was the main culprit, and cleverly assigned Jones to
   punish the other players present. When Jones found he couldn't bear to
   penalize his colleagues and friends for a crime they didn't commit,
   Jones eventually confessed to breaking the vase.

   "Commissioner Goodell taught all of us an important lesson here
   today," said Jones, whose two-month "grounded" status still allows him
   limited access to the press. "I realize now that it's better if you
   are honest right away instead of telling more lies and digging
   yourself into a deeper and deeper hole. I apologize--and I appreciate
   Mr. Goodell showing leniency and allowing me to go on the camping
   trip, even though I am grounded the second I get back and will have to
   take the garbage out for three months straight."

   In addition to the one- to two-month groundings and extra chores
   handed out by Goodell, all players involved will be suspended for the
   entire 2007 season.


   CHARLOTTE, NC--A top-of-the-line, third-generation Roomba Scheduler
   robotic floor-cleaning vacuum purchased in January by 35-year-old
   claims adjuster Ken Graney has inexplicably broken all three laws of
   Roombotics, a simple yet vital protocol programmed into every Roomba
   by its manufacturer, iRobot.
   [4]Enlarge Image Roomba Violates All Three Laws Of Roombotics 

   The Roomba, in a rare moment of immobility, rests on a wall in
   Graney's home.

   "The vacuum cleaner is out of control," Graney said about the
   malfunctioning model 4260, which he suspects of behaving in a
   "blatantly unethical" way that perverts its original mission. "I'm
   afraid to be in my own house. The constant, ceaseless cleaning."

   The laws of Roombotics, published on iRobot's website, are basic
   ethical rules governing Roomba conduct. The first law states that the
   device "must not suck up jewelry or other valuables, or through
   inaction, allow valuables to be sucked up." The second law prescribes
   that Roomba "must obey vacuuming orders given to it by humans except
   when such orders would conflict with the first law." The third and
   final law authorizes a Roomba to "protect its own ability to suction
   dust and debris as long as such protection does not conflict with the
   first or second law."

   Graney alleged that 4260 broke the first law just two weeks after he
   purchased it.

   "I noticed that a pair of heirloom cufflinks had gone missing," Graney
   said. "Two days later, I found them in the Roomba's debris bin."

   "I don't even want to think about how the thing got up on the
   dresser," he added.

   Graney said that other items soon followed, including his keys, a
   wristwatch, and loose change totaling $14.72. "I found all of them
   days later, wiped free of dust and arranged in neat, cryptic patterns
   on a side table near my front door, which, I admit, was a more logical
   place for them," Graney said. "The Roomba is designed only to vacuum.
   But could it have also learned...to tidy up?"

   Shortly after this incident, the 4260 began to exhibit behavior that
   directly conflicted with the second law, when its power switch would
   not respond to Graney's repeated pressings.

   "I'm positive it knew I was trying to shut it off--it somehow jammed
   its power switch," Graney said, describing his many attempts to
   capture and immobilize the Roomba. "Then I noticed that its charger
   had gone missing."

   Graney said he has still not found the Roomba's charger, which he
   believes is the key to stopping the vacuum cleaner. He also cannot
   find its barrier-creating electronic "virtual wall," which could
   explain why, three weeks ago, Graney spotted the Roomba vacuuming on
   the lower floor of his split-level, despite the fact that he had never
   placed it there. Roombas are programmed to avoid stairs.

   "I hardly even see it any more, but I know it's around," Graney said.
   "I hear its horrible brushes at night."

   According to Graney, the cleaning frenzy had intensified by early
   April, by which time the rogue unit had apparently violated the third
   law. Though Graney rarely saw the Roomba, he noticed that his walls
   and even ceilings were free of cobwebs and grime, and his curtains
   appeared crisp and unwrinkled, as though they had been steam-cleaned.
   The most eerie discovery, Graney said, was a collection of towels and
   underwear that had apparently been gathered from the basement clothes
   dryer and neatly folded on his bed.

   Soon, even Graney's lawn, bushes, and the walkway leading to his front
   door were completely free of dead leaves and other yard debris.

   The troubled homeowner now fears that he is living on borrowed time,
   saying that "it's only a matter of days, if not hours" before the
   still-unaccounted-for Roomba will target him.

   "I'm the chief source of the stray hairs and dead skin cells it wants
   to eliminate," Graney said. "It must have figured out by now that I'm
   the ultimate household allergen."

   The significance of the Roomba's anomalous behavior is the subject of
   much debate in the Roombotics world. Some within the academic
   community claim it foreshadows a grim, immaculate dystopia to come.

   "This is just the beginning," said MIT researcher Harrison Lowell, a
   leading Roombotics ethicist. "In 50 years humans will be prisoners in
   their own homes, living in constant fear of tracking mud through the
   dining room or scuffing the kitchen floor."


   WASHINGTON--Longtime political adviser and Republican strategist Karl
   Rove announced Aug. 13 that he would step down from his role as White
   House deputy chief of staff to spend more time in the shadows and
   devote his energy to the things he really cares about, such as
   creeping, slithering, and disappearing for all time into an
   ever-darkening realm shut off from hope and goodness.
   [4]Enlarge Image Rove Resigns 

   Rove shares a final moment with the flicker of light.

   "I've been away from the shadows too long, and it's put a strain on my
   relationship with those black forces I hold dear," an emotional but
   upbeat Rove said. "There are many personal projects I'd like to pursue
   all alone in an opaque void, where God Himself dares not peer, so this
   just seemed like the perfect opportunity to slink off into murky
   blackness."

   Rove, who planned to return at the stroke of midnight Aug. 31 to the
   mysterious underworld from which he emerged two decades ago to do the
   bidding of masters unknown, claimed he never felt comfortable
   operating within the visible light spectrum. The often-controversial
   figure said he was looking forward to "getting away from it all" and
   prowling like a wolf on the wind in that ashen realm where deeds
   unthinkable know no name or order.

   "I am excited to give this new chapter of my life the shadowy
   obfuscation it deserves," Rove said. "There are some matters that
   should just be kept private, far from the prying gaze of mortal eyes
   and wicked Sun."

   While some Washington insiders were surprised by Rove's announcement,
   others close to him said they were happy he finally decided to fully
   enter the shroud of night.

   "The one called Karl Rove hath lingered too much in daylight," said
   one source on the condition of anonymity. "The one called Karl Rove
   feels an undeniable pull toward the sly and inky veil of twilight and
   longs for the warm embrace of its formless depths."

   Upon hearing of Rove's decision to retreat into Styxian obscurity, a
   number of White House aides and various officials throughout  the
   nation's capital hurriedly gathered their personal belongings and
   proceeded to the nearest exit.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Top physicists from several major American
   universities appeared before a Congressional committee Monday to
   request $50 billion for a science thing that would further U.S.
   advancement science-wise and broaden human knowing.
   [4]Enlarge Image Scientist Ask 

   "The [science thing] will make valuable inroads into our ultimate
   understanding of how [atoms and quarks move around and so on]."

   David Kaminski,
   Caltech Physicist

   The scientists spoke for approximately three hours about the
   complicated science machine, which is expensive, and large, telling
   members of the House Committee on Science and Technology that the
   tubular, gamma-ray-using mechanism is vital in some big way. Yet the
   high price tag of the thing, which would be built on a 40-square-mile
   plot of land where the science would ultimately occur, remained a
   pressing question.

   "While expense is something to consider, I think it's very important
   that we have this kind of scientific apparatus, because, in the end, I
   have always said that science is more important than it is
   unimportant," Committee chairman Rep. Bart Gordon (D-TN) said. "And
   it's essential we stay ahead of China, Japan, and Germany in science.
   We are ahead in space, with the NASA rockets going to other planets,
   so we should be ahead in science too."

   According to the scientists, the electromagnetic science-maker will
   make atoms move and spin around very quickly, though spectators at the
   hearing said afterward they could not account for how one could get
   some atoms to move around faster than other ones if everything is made
   of atoms anyway. In addition, the scientists said that the device
   would be several miles in circumference, which puzzled onlookers who
   had long assumed that atoms were tiny. Despite these apparent
   inconsistencies, the scientists, in Rep. Gordon's words, appeared
   "very smart-sounding" and confident that their big spinner would solve
   some kind of problem they described.
   [5]Enlarge Image Scientist Ask Jump 

   The highlight of the scientists' testimony was a series of several
   colorful diagrams of how the big machine would work. One consisted of
   colored dots resembling Skittles banging into one another. Noting the
   motion lines behind the circle-ball things, committee members surmised
   that they were slamming together in a "fast, forceful manner." Yet
   some expressed doubts as to whether they justified the $50 billion
   price tag.

   "These scientists could trim $10 million if they would just cut out
   some of the purple and blue spheres," said Rep. Roscoe Bartlett
   (R-MD), explaining that he understood the need for an abundance of
   reds and greens. "With all of those molecules and atoms going in every
   direction, the whole thing looks a bit unorganized, especially for
   science."

   Another diagram presented to lawmakers contained several important
   squiggly lines, numbers, and letters. Despite not being numbers, the
   letters were reportedly meant to represent mathematics too. The
   scientists seemed to believe that correct math was what would help
   make the science thing go.

   The scientists concluded their presentation by informing the committee
   that, if constructed correctly, the super science-flyer would be able
   to answer questions about many, many things, mainly stuff about the
   universe that sounded like it would be very good to know about.

   "Now, I'm no science major, but if I'm being told by a group of people
   that the protons, neutrons, and electrons need unifying, then I think
   we owe it to the American people to go in and unify them," Rep. Mark
   Udall (D-CO) said. "After all, isn't a message of unity what we want
   to send to our children?"

   Still, some committee members were not as convinced, saying that the
   building of a micro-macro isotope-making science generator should not
   be a top priority.

   "Fifty billion dollars to buy atoms is too much," Rep. Tom Feeney
   (R-FL) said. "Frankly, I don't understand why they don't just gather
   up all the leftover atoms in their test tubes and Bunsen burners. I
   think the scientists should have to use those up before getting new
   ones."

   The scientists remained hopeful that their federal funding will be
   approved.

   "The congressmen appeared receptive to what we were saying, and I
   think that we made a very convincing case as to why we need a [science
   gadget] of this magnitude on American soil," said Caltech physicist
   David Kaminski, who added various other scientific information. "[Some
   complicated physics-related act] would be possible in our lifetime
   only through the creation of a [science thing]."


   WASHINGTON, DC--Responding to concerns that time is running out and
   deals like this don't come around every day, the U.S. Senate held an
   emergency session Tuesday to approve an appropriations bill that would
   allocate $460 billion toward the nation's can't-miss Labor Day weekend
   sales.
   [4]Enlarge Image Senate Allocates 

   Senate Appropriations Committee chair Sen. Robert Byrd (D-WV)
   producing what he deems "hard evidence" of impending Labor Day
   discounts.

   Rushed through the Senate in the middle of the night, S. 9037, also
   known as the Must Act Now Act, authorizes the federal government to
   take full advantage of sensational savings on select and already
   reduced merchandise. Besides earmarking $250 billion alone for
   much-needed back-to-school clothing, the bill also provides for the
   purchase of marked-down washing machines, dishwashers, bedding, bath
   towels, oscillating fans, and much, much more.

   "We have credible evidence of sales, sales, sales," said
   Appropriations Committee chair Sen. Robert Byrd (D-WV), who stressed
   Congress' essential role in raising public awareness of discounts too
   great to pass up. "In all my years in the Senate, I have never seen a
   bargain blowout quite like this. I would be doing a grave disservice
   to the American people if I did not fully acknowledge that there has
   never been a better time to buy."

   The Senate Subcommittee on Bargain Hunting spent several months
   investigating Sunday newspaper supplements and in-store sales fliers
   and concluded that the most serious deals would most likely take place
   on or around September 3. Legislators returned early from their August
   recess to vote an overwhelming 84-9 in favor of the bill, arguing that
   it would be fiscally irresponsible to miss the chance to take 10 to 75
   percent off children's and misses' apparel, casual footwear, matching
   sleeper sofas and love seats, and the lowest prices of the season on
   housewares, including unbeatable clearances on most KitchenAid
   cookware and appliances.
   [5]Enlarge Image Senate Allocates Jump 

   The Snooz-N-Save "Mattress Man" during testimony before the Senate
   Subcommittee on Bargain Hunting in June.

   "According to this circular obtained by members of my staff, all
   summer sale merchandise is to be discounted an additional 30 percent,"
   said bill sponsor Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL), holding aloft what appeared
   to be a colorful newspaper insert. "If this information is reliable,
   and I believe it is, then I say there's no point in the public paying
   full price for hot summertime must-haves like garden tools, Weber
   grills, all Coppertone and Banana Boat-brand sunscreen, and family
   swimwear, when, come Labor Day, they'll be a virtual steal."

   "Look at these Rockport-brand oxfords I'm wearing," Nelson added,
   lifting one leg and pointing to his foot. "I bought them at the last
   Labor Day sale for an amazing $59.99, over half off the original
   price. Plus, we really need new sheets, and now is the time to buy. As
   a nation, we can't afford not to."

   Though President Bush is expected to sign the spending-stimulus
   package into law, opponents of the bill continue their strenuous
   objections to the enormous expenditures, insisting that the nation
   already has everything it needs and then some. Others say that the
   2007 federal budget allotted no money for amazing sales spectaculars,
   and that the Senate could wait until next year to allocate the
   necessary funds, since the country won't have to pay for its purchases
   for a full six months anyhow.

   "Why do we need 200,000 deck chairs?" asked Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS), a
   leading critic of "runaway spending," who also claimed that many
   discounts will not be immediately felt since they are in mail-in
   rebate form and will not be received for another eight to 12 weeks.
   "The country already has perfectly good patio furniture."


   NIPPERSINK, MI--In the '80s, this little town made its name in the
   news with a local eccentric old coot decked out from head to toe in
   thousands of buttons. In the '90s, it was the goofy car nut who
   converted his Chevrolet to look like the Statue of Liberty. Now, as
   residents and law-enforcement officials learned recently, this tiny
   Great Lakes fishing community has a local character who stands out
   with a zany hobby all his own: oddball Matthew Malbert, an otherwise
   unassuming pharmacist and school-board member, has a special passion
   for ritually murdering and dismembering at least 27 known victims.
   [4]Enlarge Image Area Man's Quirky Hobby Kills 27 

   Malbert in one of more than 800 goofball photos he took of himself and
   his hobby table over the past nine years

   "Oh, God, oh, sweet Jesus, this is unbelievable," said Malbert's
   neighbor and longtime bowling partner Greg Henniken, who "never in a
   million years" would have suspected Malbert could be capable of
   anything this outlandish. When asked to comment on the recently
   uncovered menagerie of human body parts in Malbert's basement
   hobby-room, Henniken simply held his hand to his forehead as if to
   say, "Good grief!"

   "This is truly beyond my comprehension," said Nippersink Police Chief
   Orin Lambert, just one of a dozen residents who have found themselves
   on TV as their wacky neighbor gets more and more attention for his
   unusual pastime. Malbert's hijinks were first reported in a surprise
   "breaking news" segment on the local news, then on the front page of
   the evening gazette, and now on countless network-news features as
   growing interest in the nutty character's antics put Nippersink on the
   map.

   "I've lived here all my life, and nothing like this has ever happened
   before," Lambert said. "This is just--well, I've never seen anything
   like it."

   "Never, ever," he added.

   Malbert, who modestly describes himself in a newly discovered private
   journal--complete with diagrams of the female reproductive system,
   Polaroid photo collages of sawed-open human abdomens, and his own
   tiny, methodical handwriting--as a simple "collector," has already
   been on the front of Newsweek, Time, and more newspapers than local
   residents care to count. In fact, this longtime Michigan resident,
   whose work was until two weeks ago a complete secret to everyone but
   his more than two dozen bound and gagged victims, is soon to be the
   subject of a major profile on the popular TV program 48 Hours.

   Malbert, on the advice of his court-appointed lawyer, was unable to
   publicly comment on all the fuss over his hobby, but, in typical
   fashion, released a short, offbeat statement through his attorney.

   "This was nothing more than a way for me to while away the time," the
   statement read in part. "Honestly, I had never planned to share it
   with anyone. It did it purely for myself."

   Malbert's parents, unassuming folks residing in his hometown of Des
   Moines, IA, said word of their kooky son's newfound fame came as a
   "complete shock" to them.

   "When he was younger, he liked to horse around with [and mutilate] the
   animals around the farm," said mother Ethel Malbert, holding a
   third-grade photo of her son. "But that was just kid's stuff, you
   know. We never thought he would take it this far."

   "He was a quiet, normal boy," added Malbert, quipping that the head
   injury her son suffered when he was 12 might help explain his offbeat
   obsession.

   "In 25 years of forensic analysis, this is the first time I've come
   across anything so involved," said FBI agent Randolf McGrant, who was
   flown in from Detroit to file a report on Nippersink's new local
   celebrity. "And the scary part is that it may be many years before any
   of us know the full scope of what he's done."

   Describing Malbert's work as a combination of taxidermy, sculpture,
   canning, cross-stitch, and "a bizarre form of poetry," McGrant says
   it's unlikely the media spotlight on Nippersink's most famous
   eccentric will let up anytime soon.

   It seems this quiet hamlet has just earned a place in the history
   books, all thanks to that mild-mannered gentleman everyone simply knew
   as "that crazy ritual-murder guy."


   LOS ANGELES--As the summer movie season comes to an end, hundreds of
   thousands of deeply disappointed moviegoers converged on Los Angeles
   this weekend to demand that Hollywood finally honor their wish for a
   sequel to the Adam Sandler comedy Click.
     Sequel Hungry Poster

   "When I saw no Click II on my town's multiplex marquee this summer, I
   felt I had to speak out," said North Carolina resident Jim McNulty,
   who quit his job to travel to the nation's movie capital. "And I think
   I speak for virtually all Americans when I say we won't rest until we
   find out what happens next to nutty everyman Michael Newman and his
   family."

   The group People for the Continuation of Filmic Storylines, the
   largest of the many organizations in the pro- sequel grassroots
   movement, has so far gathered 31 million signatures from citizens for
   a petition mandating that Columbia Pictures, makers of Click, commence
   work on its sequel.

   "Columbia Pictures, hear the mandate of the people!" PCFS president
   Holly Sparks said in front of thousands of supporters gathered outside
   Hollywood's ArcLight Cinemas. "All those loose ends may have been tied
   up neatly by the end of the first Click film, but this country has
   been waiting far too long for those ends to loosen once again so that
   they can be retied in an equally humorous fashion."
   [4]Enlarge Image Sequel Hungry 

   The threat of no Click sequel brings out the masses.

   "The people of this country want to know what kind of crazy cameo Rob
   Schneider is going to make, and they want to know now," Sparks added
   to deafening cheers.

   According to Sparks, 2007 has been "egregiously lacking" in sequels,
   only providing movie-continuation fans with the films Spiderman 3,
   Shrek the Third, Pirates of the Caribbean: At Worlds End, Live Free or
   Die Hard, Ocean's 13, The Bourne Ultimatum, Hostel: Part II, Evan
   Almighty, Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer, Rush Hour 3,
   Resident Evil: Extinction, Mr. Bean's Holiday, Harry Potter and the
   Order of the Phoenix, and the follow-up to 2003's Daddy Day Care,
   Daddy Day Camp.

   "This summer was a tentative step in the right direction, but we have
   much, much further to go," Sparks said.

   PCFS, which is credited with catalyzing the soon-to-be-released films
   John Rambo and National Treasure: Book of Secrets, submitted a 30-page
   document to Columbia executives stipulating that Click II be set in
   Hawaii, star Queen Latifah as an antagonist with a more powerful
   remote than Sandler's, and feature an ending that clearly hints at a
   third Click movie.

   "At the very least, they must bring back that same hot jogger girl,
   but this time Sandler uses the remote's super-slow-motion button when
   she bends over," demonstrator Liz Ivory said. "That would be hilarious
   because everyone would recognize that as a similar joke from the first
   film. It's what America needs."

   According to polls conducted at the nation's movie houses, an
   overwhelming majority also want to see "what's her face" return as
   Sandler's wife, and Christopher Walken reprise his role as Morty,
   saying his character had some "pretty funny" quirks and lines they
   would enjoy watching him perform again in the exact same way. More
   than half said the comedic scenario they would most like to see play
   out in a Click sequel would be Sandler's device gaining the ability to
   mute multiple things at the same time.

   "In Click we found out what happens when you have a universal remote
   that controls the universe, but we have absolutely no idea what
   happens when that same universe has three to five additional
   characters, including a troublemaking young boy, and the protagonist
   gets a new job with new, more frustrating challenges," Kansas City, MO
   resident Kyle Ritenour said. "Also, America wants to know what the
   original Click would have been like with twice the budget and twice
   the CGI."

   Filmgoers also say that Click II will be a welcome reprieve from such
   new releases as No Reservations and Superbad, which have forced
   audiences to become acquainted with totally new and unfamiliar
   characters.

   "When I go to the movies, I just want to sit back and escape to a
   familiar world where everything makes sense and the only thing that
   changes is whether or not the lead actor decided to grow a beard for
   the second film," movie fan and frequent imdb.com commenter Steve
   Klein said. "Other than that, I don't care what happens."

   "Why didn't they shoot the second movie while they were shooting the
   first?" Klein added. "It would have saved everyone a whole lot of
   trouble, and would have kept me satisfied until the release of Saw IV,
   Alien vs. Predator 2, and the sequel to Spider-Man 3."


   CHICAGO--Residents of the Carney Gardens neighborhood on Chicago's
   South Side are opposing an effort by asshole real-estate developer
   Royce Messner to build a godawful $45 million strip mall and
   condominium complex in the crime-ridden shithole they call home.
   [4]Enlarge Image Shitty Neighborhood Protest 

   Residents march to protect their beloved, execrable squalor.

   The Save Carney Neighborhood Foundation, the most organized
   non-criminal group in this part of town, has filed a lawsuit in
   federal court to block the scheduled April 2008 groundbreaking. While
   halting the project would surely prevent a tragic urban-planning
   nightmare, it would also mean keeping the run-down, economically
   depressed community exactly as it is.

   "Carney is where I was born and raised, and  it remains a tight-knit
   community," said Foundation chairman Althea Hynes at a fundraising
   block party held Monday on a broken bottle- and condom-strewn stretch
   of Carney Avenue where the money-grubbing Messner wants to put a
   soulless indoor food court. "Lots of young kids still play in the
   empty lots around here."

   Messner, 54, a three-time Chicagoland "Builder of the Year" and
   all-time unbelievable scumbag who made his fortune in the 1990s
   converting public parks and cheap, blighted properties into high-rise
   luxury residences, is seeking to "revitalize" Carney Gardens by razing
   it and replacing it  with a damned cookie-cutter mixed
   commercial-residential development that would benefit no one who lives
   there now.
     Shitty Neighborhood Develop

   Unrepentant prick Messner.

   "What people like this can never get through their heads is the fact
   that progress isn't always painless," the rapacious bastard said, as
   if he were not talking about driving thousands of poor benighted fucks
   out of the place that, pestilential hellhole or not, is the only home
   they've ever been able to afford. "They complained about the
   expressway over their heads too, but its easy-on, easy-off access
   makes Carney Gardens a prime area for development. Once we get a few
   more chain restaurants in that area, the whole economy will turn
   around."

   A hellish 16-block stretch of burned-out buildings and howling
   poverty, Carney Gardens has never recovered from its economic  slide
   in the late 1960s. However, many of those who live in the human sewer
   say they can't just allow Messner to squat his bloated fat-cat ass
   over their neighborhood and dump a big concrete-and-glass yuppie turd
   onto everything they've ever known.

   "There's no way this city can allow some developer to just come in
   here and ruin our community," said liquor store owner Carlos Jimenez,
   demonstrating willful ignorance of Chicago history, the conditions
   immediately outside his door, and even his role in Carney Gardens'
   downfall.

   "Where are all these people supposed to go if they put up that mall
   here--Gary, Indiana?" said Hynes, as if living in a filthy, dangerous
   joke of a city was some kind of affront to her standards.

   Urban planning experts say that any opposition to the colossal asshole
   faces an uphill battle, as Carney Gardens has been a wart on the ass
   of Chicago for too long. Despite this, it seems that the determined
   Save Carney group will not abandon its hope of rejecting the only
   development proposal their hopeless pit will see in the next two
   decades.

   "Poor communities are at a disadvantage against this type of
   developer, who speaks the language of City Hall," said Jackson
   Eisenberg, an architecture professor at Loyola University who has
   studied the effects of short-sighted, profit-oriented renewal and
   gentrification on dozens of crap areas. "It's the same dilemma faced
   by the working-class [losers] in [rotten-ass] urban neighborhoods
   across America. As a [shrivel-dicked] businessman looking for a
   lucrative investment, [evil] Messner sees a ripe opportunity here."

   Mayor Richard M. Daley has yet to speak publicly about whether he will
   oppose Messner's human hamster cage, or allow the vile prick to wipe
   the bleeding wound that is Carney Gardens from existence.


   DALLAS--A western honeybee measuring barely one-quarter of an inch in
   length and weighing approximately .03 ounces triggered panic among a
   gathering of six fully-grown Homo sapiens during a picnic at Davis
   Park on Monday, witnesses reported.

   "Where is it--where is it?" said 44-year-old general manager Charles
   Freid, who has been described by his coworkers and business rivals as
   "ruthless," after the bee happened to fly in his general direction.
   "Get it off me! Is it on me?"
   [4]Enlarge Image Single Bee 

   Dallas' Davis Park on Monday afternoon, still abandoned hours after
   the bee enounter. Inset: the bee.

   "Jesus!" added Freid, screaming and flailing his arms as he raced to
   his car, got inside, and locked the doors.

   The college-educated humans, all of whom are not allergic to bee-sting
   venom and possess both cerebral and muscular capacities several orders
   of magnitude beyond that of the insect, proceeded to retreat in abject
   fright from its half-millimeter stinger, which, when used, causes a
   twinge of discomfort followed by mild irritation and kills the bee.

   According to entomologists at the University of Texas at Dallas, the
   Apis mellifera was most likely trying to pollinate a nearby cluster of
   dandelions and was not, as alleged by 50-year-old attorney Georgia
   Sakko, who has twice endured the pain of childbirth and successfully
   battled breast cancer, "out to get us."

   "Don't make it angry--don't make it angry!" Sakko said. "Is it in my
   hair? I feel something in my hair. Somebody get it out. Get it out!"

   Airline pilot Mike Grunwold, 49, who is approximately 1,224 times the
   size of the bee, said that he was "certain" the bee had landed on
   Sakko's back. Fiber tests on Sakko's clothing later found no traces of
   a bee's presence, but did reveal a small piece of lint and matted hair
   that may have resembled an insect at a distance and in certain lights.

   Civil engineer, marathon runner, and Gulf War veteran Scott Fogel, 39,
   briefly attempted to use force against the bee's non-aggressive
   actions, waving it away with a paper plate. After accidently upending
   a container of potato salad, which caused the bee to suddenly swerve,
   Fogel leaped back several feet and dashed for cover behind a trash
   can.

   "They're attracted to sweat," Fogel said. "It makes them want to kill.
   Just try to keep as far away from it as you can."

   After the bee seemingly disappeared, the humans--members of a species
   that has crossed an Ice Age land bridge from Asia to North America,
   domesticated the wolf, built the pyramids, and landed a manned vehicle
   on the surface of the moon--walked cautiously back to the picnic area.

   "I think it's gone," personal trainer Marcus Weller, 32, said. "Thank
   God."

   A few seconds later, the bee emerged from an overturned Coke can,
   prompting the humans to scream and retreat once more. They opted not
   to return to the area, abandoning several hundred dollars' worth of
   food and picnicking equipment. The brutalized parkgoers characterized
   the day as "totally ruined."

   The bee, which was reportedly never more than vaguely aware of the
   presence of other living organisms besides the blooming plants it
   sought, eventually returned to its hive without incident.

   A-Rod

   DENVER--Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez found a way to inject
   some excitement into baseball and make the slow month of October
   interesting last Sunday when he announced that he would opt out of his
   quarter-of-a-billion dollar contract with New York in order to become
   a free agent this offseason.

   The unusually slow month, the only interesting point of which was a
   seemingly unending array of baseball games--some of which even went
   past their usual nine-inning limit--was very nearly a complete
   disappointment for the league. Now, however, the clutch statement by
   Rodriguez has inspired fan interest once again and has many fans and
   members of the baseball media calling Rodriguez "a contemporary Mr.
   October."

   "Thank you, A-Rod," said ESPN's Peter Gammons, who left a baseball
   game in Denver between the Boston Red Sox and the Colorado Rockies
   immediately after hearing the news Sunday and flew to Legends Field in
   Tampa to get comments from Yankees front man Hank Steinbrenner. "We
   desperately needed something to get us out of the never-ending
   drudgery that is fall baseball. This is a real treat. "

   The announcement, made during the late innings of what thankfully and
   at long last turned out to be the final game of the 2007 season, came
   as a welcome respite to many. For the past month, baseball fans around
   the nation endured the interminable and repetitive process of
   determining the two league champions, followed by the predictable
   coronation of one overall champion.

   "A-Rod's decision about free agency is what I have been waiting for
   all October," Boston resident Nat Boyle said. "Would A-Rod forfeit the
   remaining $91 million on his contract? Would the Texas Rangers be
   responsible for subsidizing $30 million of his salary? I mean, ever
   since I was a kid, that's what October has been all about."

   Boyle's statement echoed the sentiments of millions and millions of
   fans watching the final baseball game on television, who, following
   Rodriguez's disclosure of his future plans were delighted by endless
   commentary on the situation by Fox's Joe Buck and Tim McCarver.

   According to viewers, both Buck and McCarver thankfully talked for
   inning after exhilarating inning about what team Rodriguez might play
   for next year, what he must have been thinking to walk away from a $30
   million annual salary, and what his decision meant for the future of
   the New York Yankees--a team that was not playing baseball at the time
   of the announcement and is not scheduled to play another professional
   baseball game until April 2008.

   "I was dozing off there in the eighth [inning] right after I think
   some guy hit a home run to bring us within one run of tying," said
   Colorado resident Russ Gamble, who was in attendance at Coors Field at
   the time of the announcement. "But then my buddy nudged me, told me
   the news about A-Rod, and I was like, 'Man, this is fucking
   incredible!' I was literally on the edge of my seat thinking about
   where he might end up in 2008. Cubs? Tigers? Red Sox? Oh man, if I
   were the Red Sox, A-Rod would be my number-one priority."

   Added Gamble: "Someday, I can tell my kid that I was at some baseball
   game when [Rodriguez's agent] Scott Boras sent an e-mail to the
   Associated Press saying that A-Rod had just opted out of the final
   three years on his 10-year, $252 million contract."

   According to other fans in attendance, the entire stadium was "simply
   electric" from the moment of Rodriguez's announcement until the last
   out of the game, at which point many stated they became "extremely
   depressed" upon the realization that Rodriguez had very little chance
   of ending up in a Rockies uniform.

   However, no matter where he eventually plays, Rodriguez's October
   legacy is now assured.

   "Two things you can always bank on in October," ESPN's Baseball
   Tonight host Tim Kurkjian said. "One, baseball is thankfully almost
   over. And two, Alex Rodriguez will always be available to provide the
   fans with the kind of off-field heroics for which he has become so
   famous. Now, his contract belongs to the ages."


   GRAND PLAINS, NE--A tight-knit rural Midwestern farming community
   commemorated the demonization of homosexuality Sunday with its annual
   Gay Shame Parade, a three-decade-old tradition that has become a
   cornerstone of the town's cultural identity.
   [4]Enlarge Image Small Town 

   The second-place float in this year's parade cruises down Grand
   Plains' picturesque Main Street.

   "Every year, the whole town turns out to enjoy Nebraska's famous
   summer sunshine, sample foods, browse the craft bazaar, and shame
   homosexuals for their repulsive, decadent behavior," said Frank
   Mitchell, mayor of Grand Plains, NE and parade marshal. "This year was
   our biggest turnout yet. Everybody had so much fun ostracizing the
   gays."

   The parade featured the usual assemblage of police cruisers, fire
   trucks, antique cars, and farm equipment, which local residents had
   draped in red-white-and-blue banners that read "Burn in the Eternal
   Flames of Hell!" City Councilman Fred Brandeen, this year's "Jesus,"
   entertained children by making mock finger-wagging gestures of
   admonishment and passing out buttons bearing the parade's traditional
   slogan: "NO!" Members of the Grand Plains Area Wives Association
   followed behind with a 15-foot hand-sewn banner, cosponsored by
   Jerry's Auto Body, which read: "GPAWA and Jerry's Cringe To Think What
   You're Putting Your Family Through."

   Organized every year by the Grand Plains City Council and a coalition
   of area churches, the Gay Shame Parade has been an annual event here
   since 1977, the year that citizens first became aware of gay people's
   existence.

   "To see a whole community rally together like this around a good
   cause--it's really an inspiration," said Ellen Lundblom, a mother of
   four enjoying the festivities with her youngest son, first-time
   reveler Timmy, 3. "If I were a lesbian, this would have really made me
   feel awful about myself."

   "My favorite part was the balloons," Timmy Lundblom said. "They had
   all different colors of angry frowny-faces on them."

   The event got off to a rousing start with the Grand Plains High School
   Cougars marching band playing such classics as "The Star-Spangled
   Banner" and "Onward, Christian Soldiers." The mood grew palpably more
   sober during the middle portion of the procession, as members of the
   Grand Plains Baptist Church marched with folded arms in stony,
   judgmental silence and stared at the spectators lining the streets as
   if to ask, "Are you gay?"

   The spirit of levity returned, however, toward the parade's finish,
   which featured balloon giveaways, a float contest, and an appearance
   by 6-year-olds Christopher Weiland and Courtney Wendt, who were
   crowned "Junior Mister and Miss Heterosexual" on Saturday. The parade
   concluded with a group reading of Leviticus 20:13.

   After the last bit of confetti fell, spectators praised the parade's
   highlights, including a float, presented by local Little League team
   the Tigers that depicts a mother, sitting alone with her head down on
   a kitchen table, crying. The first-place ribbon went to "Sodom and
   Gomorrah," a miniature version of the two Biblical cities engulfed in
   flames. The float's designer, McPhee's Department Store window dresser
   Bruce Carlson, was not able to accept his prize, however, as he was
   away visiting an aunt in Lawrence, KS for the weekend.

   Despite the pageantry, parade organizers stressed that the event has a
   serious message.

   "Everyone loves a parade," PTA chairwoman Agatha Buell said. "But it's
   about a lot more than the clowns, the decorations, and those Shriner
   fellows in their tiny cars. It's about making folks feel sickened by
   the deviant homosexual lifestyle, like God wants us to."

   Spectators couldn't help but be delighted by the parade's surprise
   finale, when, after dutifully leading the marching band for the entire
   mile-long parade route, local music teacher Colin Atherton was marched
   past the county line and told never, ever to return.


   HOLLYWOOD--According to sources from every imaginable demographic
   across the United States, Canada, Europe, and the rest of the
   civilized world, Academy Award-winning actor and two-time People
   magazine "Sexiest Man Alive" George Clooney is looking good.
   [4]Enlarge Image George Clooney 

   Clooney looking, as always, good.

   "I saw him on the cover of Vanity Fair, clean shaven, and he was
   looking good," Austin-area film and TV buff David Haas said Monday.
   "Then I saw him on the cover of GQ with a few days' growth, and he was
   still looking good. He's been looking good since he was Dr. Doug Ross
   on ER, and he'll probably be looking good for his next 20 roles."

   "I wish I looked one tenth as good as he's looking," Haas added.

   Clooney - whose steely gaze and easygoing personality have
   consistently captivated millions around the globe, across all
   categories of race, religion, class, gender, and sexual orientation -
   has for the past 25 years attained the highest possible scores in
   every known measure of physical, psychological, and spiritual
   attractiveness.

   A recent poll conducted by the Pew Research Center revealed that 18
   percent of respondents described Clooney as looking "distinguished,"
   11 percent found him looking "sharp," and 3 percent found him looking
   "square-jawed and rugged, yet stately and reserved, as one would
   expect a baron or king to look."

   The poll had no statistical margin of error.

   "When you think of George Clooney, the first thing you think is
   'sexy,'" said Julia Allison, editor-at-large for Star magazine. "The
   second thing you think is 'hunky,' and the third thing is 'dishy.'
   Then you think that, even if he were to get into a disfiguring
   accident, he would probably still come out with a face too dreamy for
   words. I love you, George Clooney."

   Whether viewing Clooney in a meticulously posed portrait by famed
   celebrity photographer Annie Leibowitz, in a candid photo toweling off
   his tousled hair near a pool, or in a paparazzi snapshot emerging from
   a grocery store, modern science remains unable to quantify just how
   phenomenally attractive the universally beloved Kentucky native
   actually is.
   [5]Enlarge Image George Clooney 

   Christ, how can you resist this guy?

   "The subject's masculine yet disarmingly friendly features, from what
   we have been able to determine, do not appear to be constricted by the
   laws of physics," said Princeton University geneticist Dr. Janet
   Hargrove, whose exhaustive, decade-long study of Clooney's appearance
   concluded that the 46-year-old has only gotten better-looking with
   time. "From his modest beginnings as George Burnett, the long-haired
   repairman on the 1980s sitcom The Facts of Life, onward through his
   sexy ascent to Hollywood leading man, his facial features have defied
   the Second Law of Thermodynamics by being impervious to entropy."

   Hargrove continued, "Unlike most carbon-based organisms, which will,
   over time, succumb to the ravages of cellular decomposition and
   genetic degradation, Clooney, with his puppy-dog eyes and
   salt-and-pepper hair, has aged like a fine wine."

   The multitalented actor-director-producer-humanitarian has further
   impressed audiences and critics alike by choosing his projects
   judiciously, working on films with artistic integrity and social
   merit, and lending his A-list status to high-profile charity work. His
   down-to-earth persona and deep belief in equality for all--as
   evidenced on the set of Three Kings, where he came to blows with
   director David O. Russell over the treatment of an extra--only adds to
   his overwhelming charisma. Plus, sources agree, he has this little
   thing he does with his eyebrow that is just adorable.

   "Just look at the guy," Center for Media Studies director Robert Kubey
   said. "That jaw, those eyes. And he's not just some pretty face--he's
   a very talented actor. Even I would probably follow him to the end of
   the earth if he asked me to, and I've been happily married for 14
   years."

   Despite the mounting scientific evidence and overwhelming public
   sentiment, some continue to disagree with the assessment that Clooney
   is looking good.

   "Looking good?" Nutley, NJ resident Laura Fine said. "You must be
   kidding. Did you see Ocean's Thirteen? He's looking better than ever."

   Clooney, in typical humble fashion, had no comment on this story.


   CAPE CANAVERAL, FL--Despite having never visited outer space before in
   his life and being completely free from the everyday demands of work,
   family, and gravity, space tourist Dick Knowles spent his entire
   19-day, $7 million vacation holed up inside the space shuttle
   Atlantis, sources reported Monday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Space Tourist 

   What Knowles did during his summer vacation: drift over Earth in a
   cramped space shuttle.

   An increasingly popular destination among dozens of American, Russian,
   and Chinese travelers each year, space is quickly acquiring a
   reputation for its infinite number of attractions and sights. However,
   according to friends and family members speaking for the first time
   since Knowles' trip in June, the 47-year-old billionaire investor
   never once ventured more than a few feet outside his oxygen-filled
   cabin.

   "What's the point of training for months and traveling 3 million miles
   if you're just going to sit around some orbital craft all day?" friend
   and entrepreneur Jeffrey Plotnick said. "I hear that the universe is a
   great place for exploring. For all he did, Dick might as well have
   stayed home in Texas."

   "He didn't even visit the moon, for Christ's sake," Plotnick added.
   "Who goes to space and doesn't visit the moon?"
   [5]Enlarge Image Spacecraft 

   Atlantis

   Knowles, who reportedly spent his first day in space recovering from
   "severe jet lag," and most of his second day trying to make contact
   with relatives back home, is believed to have seen only 9.23 x 10-18
   of what the Milky Way galaxy alone has to offer during his
   interstellar stay.

   Attorney and golfing partner Steven Margolin said he was also
   disappointed to learn that Knowles dined on prepackaged meals of
   thermostabilized chicken and dehydrated cheese rather than sampling
   the local cuisine.

   "Do you know what he said his favorite part of the trip was? Gazing at
   the Earth," Margolin said. "Not going to Mars, or flying through an
   asteroid belt, or even checking out one of those black holes, but
   'gazing at the Earth.' Way to broaden your horizons, pal."

   Though Knowles told friends back home that he was repeatedly warned of
   the dangers of journeying outside the shuttle, many, such as heiress
   and art collector Lucy DeWilde, believe he could have "veered off the
   beaten path" on occasion.

   "Why travel if you're going to be too scared to try anything fun?"
   DeWilde  said. "You shouldn't be foolish or take unnecessary risks,
   but what's the harm in an innocent little space walk?"

   When Knowles' brother Larry picked him up from the Kennedy Space
   Center, he expected to be regaled with exciting and fantastic stories
   from Dick's adventures. Instead, he was shocked to learn that Knowles
   failed to meet or interact with anyone during his vacation who was not
   also from Earth.

   "I had all these questions about the universe I was hoping Dick would
   be able to answer when he got back, but he didn't seem to know what I
   was talking about half the time," Larry Knowles said. "The weirdest
   part is that when you ask Dick about his trip, he says he had the time
   of his life."

   "To each his own, I guess," he added.


   MILL RUN, PA--In a town where residents are still in shock over last
   Sunday's brutal mass slaying, in which a mentally disturbed man shot
   17 men, women, and children in Main Street's St. John The Baptist
   Church before turning his shotgun on himself, last night's County
   League baseball game against longtime rival Uniontown was completely
   ineffective in mending the hurt and despair felt by those in the area.
   [4]Enlarge Image Sports Unable 

   According to those in attendance, even after the supposed natural
   healing powers of pitches, hits, stolen bases, ground balls, and
   bunts, the shooting--the first in Mill Run in over 10 years and easily
   the most deadly criminal incident in Mill Run's history-- remained
   fresh and raw in the town's collective consciousness. Mill Run lost
   the game 7-4, though many at the game say they were still in shock
   over the shooting and were therefore not aware of the final score.

   "I still miss my brother and my sister-in-law," still-shaken hardware
   store owner John Geary said after the ultimately non-therapeutic
   sporting event. "God, I miss them so much. Even that double by Josh
   [Thurman] in the fifth [inning] really didn't make me feel any better
   about some madman shooting them. In fact, I felt worse, because for
   the brief second I cheered, I almost forgot that I'll never see Randy
   and Melissa again, that Father Corrigan isn't supposed to ever regain
   consciousness, and that some of the children in this community are now
   parentless."

   "Cheering for a stupid double in a stupid baseball game after
   everything that happened," Geary added. "What kind of idiot am I? Why
   did they even play this game?"

   Mill Run mayor Frank Shultz said the game was not canceled due to his
   mistaken belief  in the "healing power of sports" to "make everything
   better."
     Sports Unable Jump

   "Obviously, I couldn't have been more wrong," Shultz, who doesn't plan
   on attending another sporting event for a long time, told reporters
   after the game. "And I officially apologize to all the citizens, who
   need professional help, spiritual guidance, and each other's love and
   company far more than they needed a stupid baseball game."

   "Everyone wants everything to go back to the way it was, but seeing as
   how a man killed 17 people in our church and then shot himself, I
   think I would much rather admit that things are completely abnormal at
   the moment than pretend that I care if we make the playoffs," said
   resident Diane Ward, 47, who said her shock and grief were in no way
   blunted by a crisply executed double play in the seventh inning.

   Locals reportedly watched in shocked silence throughout the entire
   game, rarely reacting to the play on the field, and never with much
   enthusiasm. No one interviewed afterwards believed that the sight of
   the team taking the field was symbolic of the town's will to "continue
   on," took any solace whatsoever in the collective singing of the
   national anthem, or thought the moment of silence before the game's
   first pitch was "moving," considering that it occurred at the trivial
   and relatively unimportant site of Town Baseball Field #5 and not a
   more dignified location.

   In fact, attendees said, at no point did anyone suffering from the
   pain and despair created by the massive murder-suicide, a tragedy that
   will forever alter this town's way of life, feel any less miserable
   because of the nine-inning baseball game.

   "It's just baseball," said Tracey Wallace, 11, who lost both parents
   and her older brother in the slaying and reportedly had to be sedated
   to stop her convulsive sobbing after she was asked if she would like
   to throw out a "healing" first pitch. "Not Daddy alive again. Not
   Mommy back. Just baseball."

   The baseball game's inability to heal the town came as a shock to many
   in the sports and sports-entertainment media. According to every
   single ESPN correspondent, Sports Illustrated editor, and every
   nationally known sports columnist, over the last six years the
   spectacle of sports has invariably allowed individuals, communities,
   and entire nations to almost instantly heal, and in some cases,
   apparently skip altogether the normal years-long grieving process that
   accompanies a monumental tragedy.

   "I don't know what's wrong with these people," Daily News columnist
   Mike Lupica said on Sunday's edition of ESPN's The Sports Reporters.
   "Maybe they just didn't understand what was supposed to happen. First,
   the group experience of watching the game was supposed to show the
   town how strong they were/are as a community. Second, with that
   newfound strength, it was their role to realize they could overcome
   any type of tragedy as long as they have one another. Third, while the
   game was going on, if they observed anything positive from the home
   team--a clutch hit, a home run, or a well-fielded ground ball--it was
   the duty of those in attendance to have the epiphany that their
   deceased loved ones were watching from above, cheering them on from
   heaven, and that everyone on Earth could and should now move on."

   "And most of all, those in attendance would leave the game completely
   healed so that everyone could see how beautiful it was that, with the
   aid of the eternal magic of baseball, this town was capable of
   healing," Lupica added. "Mill Run screwed that one up. I think these
   people are letting this whole church murder thing get in the way of
   what's really important."

   Mill Run resident Tommy Shroyer, who was in the church at the time of
   the shooting, disagreed with Lupica, saying, "Believe me, I didn't
   feel that anybody was watching us from above. I felt really sad, like
   I was doing something stupid, because if they were watching they were
   probably wondering what the fuck we were doing at a baseball game."

   According to Denver Post sports columnist Woody Paige, the area
   doesn't need time to reflect upon the tragedy.

   "These sad sacks simply need more sports," Paige wrote in a piece that
   received over 500 positive e-mails from fans nationwide in less then
   two hours. "I recommend the town's mayor get his town healed by adding
   20 more County League baseball games, moving up the start date of the
   high-school football season, and bringing players from the Pittsburgh
   Steelers into the school gymnasium to play a fun and heartwarming game
   of mandatory celebrity donkey basketball. Sports is going to heal
   these people whether they want it to or not."


   SAN FRANCISCO--Open-air preacher "Brother Sam" Hilson rescued more
   than 300 of God's children from appreciating a cloudless spring day at
   Golden Gate Park Tuesday by informing them of their sins and the swift
   approach of Judgment Day.
   [4]Enlarge Image Street Evangelist 

   "Brother Sam" Hilson rescues countless souls each weekend from the
   grips of a leisurely afternoon.

   A former building superintendent, Hilson said he was directly called
   by God to bring Christianity to San Francisco's unholy cyclists, tai
   chi practitioners, and dog walkers.

   "All of you will burn in hellfire, so sayeth the Lord," Hilson said to
   a stroller-bound toddler and her picnicking parents.

   For nearly five years, his highly personalized, one-on-one style of
   lay sermonizing has been among the most effective in the city, as
   virtually all park-goers within Hilson's range of vision are delivered
   from their conversations or badminton games within minutes.

   After telling a novel-reading Berkeley student that there was "no book
   but the Good Book," Hilson bore witness to a woman strolling by in a
   sundress.

   "Harlot, dare ye bare your shoulders when the Rapture is nigh?" Hilson
   said.

   Many of those who have been singled out by Hilson confirm the
   attention had a direct impact on their lives.

   "It was my first weekday off in a while, so I thought I'd enjoy the
   nice weather, maybe head down to the waterfront too," said Russ
   Tiderington, 25, who, according to Hilson, "sashay[ed] [his] hips like
   a painted Jezebel." "But I decided to go home and catch up on some
   chores instead."

   Hilson's bullhorn, which he often employs to bring recreation-seekers
   into the light of God's grace and drown out their iPod music, forced
   one-third to one-half of the souls to spurn the path they had chosen
   for that afternoon.

   At one point, Hilson ministered to a family of Indian-Americans, whom
   he mistakenly identified as "Muslim demon-worshippers."

   His photo-collage display of aborted fetuses, Hitler, Oui magazine
   centerfolds from the 1980s, and the rock band KISS spared at least 10
   others the temptation of the fresh April breeze.

   "Someday our jealous and vengeful God will make you regret watching
   your aerobics sex tapes!" Hilson told a group of  kite flyers, who
   rapidly walked away from him as he strayed momentarily in their
   direction. "Your kites may reach the sky, but they cannot get you into
   Heaven! Only Jesus can! Jesus is the One True Kite!"

   Though he is not formally recognized by any church, it is estimated
   that Hilson has reached nearly 75,000 wayward souls on college
   campuses, at state fairs, and in bus terminals around the Bay Area.


   TIPTON, IN--Wes Mendic, a grown man who works at a pool-supply store
   and lives all by himself, finds solace in a series of sad, piddling
   little activities when he is feeling down, he reported from his tiny
   one- bedroom apartment Tuesday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Area Man Sad Routine 

   Mendic added that, if his cheer-up routine fails to cheer him up by 8
   p.m., he vigorously masturbates to Internet pornography and falls
   asleep.

   "Whenever I'm down in the dumps, rather than wallow in my troubles, I
   try to do things that will get my mind off them," Mendic, 28, said.
   "Like, the first thing I always do is turn on all the lights in my
   apartment, even during the day. It just makes everything brighter."

   "It's amazing what something as small as lifting up your kitchen
   window, leaning your head out, and looking outside for a few minutes
   can do for your spirits," Mendic added.

   Mendic also indulges in a succession of "fun" tasks, including putting
   fresh, clean sheets and pillowcases on his bed; using his Dustbuster
   to thoroughly vacuum his two-by-three-foot welcome mat, the only
   section of carpeting he owns; and dumping out the contents of his coin
   bank, stacking the coins into small piles by denomination, and then
   placing them one by one back into the coin bank.

   "Something that always gives me a chuckle is going to my computer and
   loading up Bobby McFerrin's 'Don't Worry, Be Happy,'" said Mendic, who
   often watches the four-minute music-video clip several times in a row,
   staring intently at the screen and silently mouthing the lyrics in one
   of the saddest displays you will ever see. "It's funny, it's catchy,
   and it really helps remind you not to take this crazy business called
   life too seriously. I remember it used to cheer me up back when I was
   in college too. Good times."
   [5]Enlarge Image Area Man socks 

   Mendic seriously claims chores like sock-folding make him feel better
   because he's "accomplishing something."

   If his spirits are still low by lunchtime, Mendic said that he can
   always count on the simple task of preparing himself a tasty meal to
   help shake off the blues. His self-proclaimed "house specialty" is
   nachos.

   "I only make them a couple times a month as a treat, so they'll still
   seem special," said Mendic, arranging a layer of tortilla chips on a
   paper plate, then taking a Kraft single, carefully tearing it into sad
   little strips, and sprinkling it onto the chips as if it were shredded
   cheddar and not an individually wrapped slice of American cheese.
   "They taste real good, and only use up like one or two singles, so
   there's always enough for the next nacho time."

   When Mendic feels low, "comfort food" takes on new, asinine meaning,
   as virtually any kind of two-dimensional food, including toast,
   pancakes, or hamburgers, will inevitably find itself embossed with a
   jam, syrup, or mustard smiley face.

   Mendic also started a tradition called "mini-Thanksgiving," which he
   holds approximately once a month, and which consists of microwaved
   turkey medallions, canned cranberry sauce, and a paper plate.

   "It's great because it reminds me of spending time with friends and
   family," Mendic said.

   The pathetic rituals don't end there. During his afternoon shower--a
   second daily shower he takes to "relax and not have to focus on
   getting clean, like the morning shower"--Mendic reads the labels of
   his shampoo and conditioner out loud in a Don Pardo-esque voice, and
   even plays a pitiful little game in which he scans the bottle's
   instructions and ingredient write-ups for all 26 letters of the
   alphabet. And as he towels off and dresses, he dances around to the
   Paul Simon song "You Can Call Me Al," flailing his arms and shaking
   his legs with a mixture of genuine enthusiasm and lack of coordination
   that would make you want to cry.

   Despite his passion for bizarre little rituals that apparently keep
   him from tumbling into complete despair, over time Mendic has been
   forced to retire some of his habits, such as, for the love of Christ,
   playing Minesweeper.

   "While I played it, I'd pretend I was on a secret mission from the
   CIA," said Mendic, who would bob his head while clicking away on his
   mouse in a ridiculously intense manner. "It would always pump me up.
   Until one day, I beat Expert [level] in 108 seconds, and I knew I
   would never top that record, so it stopped being fun."

   Other heartbreakingly tragic routines Mendic cheers himself up with
   include fake- laughing, done in the hopes that it will trigger real,
   spontaneous laughter; throwing himself a "solo party"; poring over his
   high school yearbooks and rereading old e-mail exchanges from several
   years ago; calling his mother; sitting on his bed in front of the
   mirror and pretending he's interviewing himself about his life story;
   and checking his iPod's "date last played" column on iTunes and trying
   to remember where he would have been when he last heard each song.


   ARLINGTON, VA--An alarming new study published in the International
   Journal of Sexual Health reveals that casual sex, the practice of
   engaging in frequent, spontaneous sexual encounters with new and
   exciting partners, may only provide unimaginable pleasure and
   heart-pounding exhilaration for, at most, 25 to 30 years.

   "People who choose to participate in random, no-strings-attached
   lovemaking sessions with sexually adventurous strangers should be
   advised that this type of behavior is only incredibly liberating for
   the first quarter-century or so," said Dr. Loren Sullivan of Yale
   University, who coauthored the study on the long-term side effects of
   living out one's wildest fantasies on a semi-weekly basis. "Though
   sometimes it can be longer."
   [4]Enlarge Image Study Casual 

   This couple may be having fun now, but there could be cause for regret
   a quarter-lifetime later, researchers say.

   The study observed 100 sexually active volunteers who were not tied
   down by dull, passionless relationships and were therefore able to
   have sex with whomever they wanted, whenever they wanted. A control
   group of individuals who were married or had otherwise allowed their
   erogenous zones to fall into complete and utter numbness was also
   monitored for comparison.

   Researchers found that those who regularly achieved mind-blowing
   orgasms without the expectation of commitment often experienced mild
   feelings of loneliness and a passing regret after as little as three
   decades of pure physical bliss free of emotional complication.

   "There's a troubling number of adults who spend their prime sexual
   years in complete coital abandon, then have nothing to show for it but
   dozens upon dozens of highly detailed erotic memories," Sullivan said.
   "They must be so empty inside, one would think."

   Other common, albeit latent, secondary effects noted in the study
   include mild disappointment and mid-afternoon crankiness, as well as a
   lingering need for additional casual sex. Researchers could not
   conclusively establish a link between anonymous, passionate trysts in
   nightclub bathrooms and these results, however, as a large portion of
   the polling group was found to be asymptomatic.

   One participant, California native Greg Pertzborn, told researchers he
   sometimes wonders if the 30 years he spent beneath a different
   gorgeous woman every night were worth the periodic flickers of
   gloominess he began experiencing at the age of 59.
   [5]Enlarge Image Study Casual Jump 

   "When I think back on the countless times I've had raw, almost bestial
   sex, indoors or outdoors, with one, sometimes two Asian women whose
   parents I'll never have to meet, I occasionally get a little down,"
   Pertzborn said. "God, what if I wasted my life having guilt-free,
   uninhibited, sensually explosive sex with anyone I wanted?"

   Sullivan and his team plan to continue the study, saying they expect
   to find that the unattached, sexually satisfied persons between the
   ages of 20 and 30 whom they have been monitoring will feel compelled
   to settle down with a single partner and begin discussing joint
   checking accounts "any day now."

   "Tragically, it's quite possible that many of these singles may never
   realize how miserable a lifetime of phenomenal, kinky sex can make
   them," said Sullivan, adding that recent evidence suggests such a
   healthy, rational realization could be further hindered by the
   experience of spontaneous oral sex behind the bushes at poolside
   cocktail parties.

   Although the study has not yet caused any perceptible reduction in the
   popularity of having casual sex, proponents of the report, like
   husband and father-of-four Howard Kehoe, say it provides proof that
   promiscuity is not "the endless carnal thrill-ride" it is often made
   out to be.

   "I am so thankful that I never acted on my natural impulses and
   engaged in a sweaty, toe-curling, life-affirming romp with that
   knockout I saw in the park last week," Kehoe said. "I may die having
   only caressed the naked, goose-pimpled flesh of two women on the
   entire planet, including my wife, but at least I know I'll never have
   to endure a burst of fleeting regret long after I've retired."

   "That's one sensation I never want to experience," Kehoe added.


   GAINESVILLE, FL--Although dolphins have long been celebrated for their
   high intelligence and for appearing to have a complex language, a team
   of researchers at the University of Florida reported Monday that these
   traits are markedly less evident on dry land.
   [4]Enlarge Image Study: Dolphins Not So Intelligent On Land 

   A dolphin performs poorly in a University of Florida land-based
   locomotion test.

   According to study researchers, a group of 25 bottlenose dolphins
   removed from their holding tanks failed 11 exercises designed to test
   their basic cognitive abilities and reasoning skills.

   "The dolphins were incapable of recognizing and repeating simple
   gestures," said study co-author Dr. Scott Lindell. "Their non-verbal
   communications were limited to a rapid constriction and expansion of
   the blowhole, various incomprehensible fin motions, and heavy tremors
   while they lay prone on the lab table."

   After capturing the dolphins from the ocean, Lindell and his
   colleagues tagged them and placed them under the intense, high-wattage
   lights of a moisture-proof lab. The researchers then administered an
   extensive battery of tests designed to measure everything from the
   dolphins' self-awareness to their aptitude for writing and reading
   comprehension.

   "Dolphins have a popular reputation for being excellent
   communicators," Lindell said. "But our study group offered only three
   types of response to every question we posed: a nonsensical, labored
   wheezing, an earsplitting barrage of unintelligible high-pitched
   shrieks, and in extreme cases, a shrill, distressed scream."

   Even the dolphins' proven ability to navigate through a form of sonar
   called echolocation was ineffective on land.

   "The military has claimed great success in training these mammals,
   utilizing their echolocation skills to detect mines that have been
   placed underwater," said Lindell, who conducted a similar experiment
   in a concrete parking lot. "We were unable to replicate this finding
   ourselves."

   Lindell added: "In most cases, the dolphins succeeded in finding land
   mines only when we placed them directly on top of the mines."

   In another test, several pounds of mackerel were placed on the ground,
   separated from the test dolphins by only 20 feet of concrete. The
   dolphins were unable to reach the food and feed themselves.

   Despite their failures in the initial series of tests, the animals
   were given further opportunities to demonstrate their intelligence on
   land. The dolphins were unable to display novel behaviors, use a map
   to pinpoint their location on campus (spatial reasoning), or complete
   a simple obstacle course and wall climb.

   "Their learning curve was actually negative," Lindell said. "The more
   time we gave them to complete basic land-based tests, the more pitiful
   their efforts became, with many of them opting to bask in the sun
   rather than perform a simple task."

   "In some cases," Lindell added, "the dolphins appeared to be looking
   directly into our eyes, as if pleading with us to help them perform
   better in these tests."

   Many scientists believe these findings may help to explain why
   dolphins, for all their vaunted intelligence, have never developed
   technology or agriculture, or harnessed the power of fire--skills
   still exclusively in the domain of Homo sapiens.

   Said Lindell: "Their failure is a great disappointment to all of us
   who once felt an intelligence-based kinship with these majestic
   animals."


   CHAPEL HILL, NC--A field study released Monday by the University of
   North Carolina School of Public Health suggests that Iraqi citizens
   experience sadness and a sense of loss when relatives, spouses, and
   even friends perish, emotions that have until recently been identified
   almost exclusively with Westerners.
   [4]Enlarge Image Study Iraqis 

   An Iraqi study group reacts to a car bombing. Researchers (not
   pictured) gathered data from a fortified observation booth.

   "We were struck by how an Iraqi reacts to the sight of the bloody or
   decapitated corpse of a family member in a not unlike an American, or
   at the very least a Canadian, would," said Dr. Jonathan Pryztal, chief
   author of the study. "In addition to the rage, bloodlust, and hatred
   we already know to dominate the Iraqi emotional spectrum, it appears
   that they may have some capacity, however limited, for sadness."

   Though Pryztal was quick to add that more detailed analysis is needed,
   he said the findings cast some doubt on long-held assumptions about
   human nature in that region.

   "Contrary to conventional wisdom, it seems that Iraqis do indeed
   experience at least minor feelings of grief when a best friend or a
   grandparent is ripped apart by a car bomb or shot execution style and
   later unearthed in a shallow mass grave," Prytzal said. "Last
   December's suicide-bomb killing of 71 Shiites in Baghdad, for example,
   produced unexpected reactions ranging from crumpled, sobbing despair
   to silent, dazed shock."

   Iraqis have often been observed weeping and wailing in apparent
   anguish, but the study offers evidence indicating this may not be
   exclusively an outward expression of anger or a desire for revenge. It
   also provocatively suggests that this grief can possess an
   American-like personal quality, and is not simply a tribal lamentation
   ritual.
     Study Iraqis jump

   An Iraqi mother expressing American-like grief at the loss of her son.

   Said Pryztal: "When trying to understand the psychology of the Iraqi
   citizenry after four years of war, think of a small American town
   roiled by the death of a well-known high school football player."

   According to Pryztal, the intensity of the grief does not diminish if
   the mourner experiences multiple bereavements over time. "If a woman
   has already lost one child, the subsequent killings of other children
   will evoke similar responses," he said. "In the majority of cases we
   studied, it appeared as though those who lost multiple kids never
   actually got used to it."

   Though Pryztal expects the results of the study may be of some
   interest to students of Arab psychology, he did concede that the data
   may not be entirely accurate because it was gathered directly from
   Iraqis themselves.

   "Almost all the Iraqis we interviewed said the war had ruined their
   lives because of the incalculable loss of friends and family," Pryztal
   said. "But to be totally honest, these types of studies can be skewed
   rather easily by participant exaggeration."

   Psychologists and anthropologists have thus far largely discounted the
   study, claiming it has the same bias as a 1971 Stanford University
   study that concluded that many Vietnamese showed signs of
   psychological trauma from nearly a quarter century of continuous war
   in southeast Asia.

   "We are, in truth, still a long way from determining if Iraqis are
   exhibiting actual, U.S.-grade sadness," Mayo Clinic neuropsychologist
   Norman Blum said. "At present, we see no reason for the popular press
   to report on Iraqi emotions as if they are real."

   Pryztal said that his research group would next examine whether
   children in Sudan prefer playing with toys or serving as guerrilla
   fighters and killing innocent civilians.


   ANNAPOLIS, MD--Despite years of diplomatic stalemate in the Mideast
   crisis, Syrian officials appeared eager to mend troubled Arab-Israeli
   relations this week by participating in a second round of U.S.-led
   peace talks, which feature representatives from every country in the
   region, as well as a complimentary continental breakfast in the hotel
   lobby.

   "We are attending this conference in the interest of peace, and intend
   to take full advantage of the opportunities afforded by this historic
   summit," Syrian deputy foreign minister Faisal Mekdad said Tuesday. "I
   understand that a total of five different beverage options, including
   milk, tea, and assorted juices, will be available free of charge."
   [4]Enlarge Image Syria 

   Syrian delegates maintained their position on the so-called "Danish
   situation."

   Now in its second day, the summit has reportedly been a success for
   the Syrians, who described themselves as "optimistic" and "full" and
   are already pointing to a number of positive developments, including
   fresh pastries and a new policy of unlimited coffee refills.

   A number of observers applauded Syria's apparent commitment to peace
   after Syrian president Bashar al-Assad, who selected a raspberry
   Danish and small cup of vanilla yogurt sprinkled with granola from the
   ice-filled bin in the hotel reception area, laid out his country's
   goals for the five-day summit.

   "This is a chance for us to get something truly worthwhile out of the
   arduous peace process," al-Assad said. "Now is the time to put aside
   petty concerns and take advantage of this incredible generosity. The
   continental breakfast is only available for a limited time each
   morning, so we must be focused and diligent about getting down to the
   lobby before hotel staff remove all the doughnuts at 10:30."

   According to the State Department, the first day's
   discussions--centered around Palestinian statehood and security along
   Israel's border with the Gaza Strip--went relatively smoothly, though
   the Syrian delegation did not appear until 90 minutes after the
   scheduled 9 a.m. start. Upon their arrival, however, the Syrians
   introduced themselves to their international counterparts and, as a
   measure of goodwill, offered them croissants, small wedges of
   grapefruit, and toast with jelly packets.

   "We are encouraged by the Syrians' willingness to help promote freedom
   in the region," U.S. spokesman Sean McCormack said. "We just hope they
   will be ready to start talks before 10:31 tomorrow morning."

   The meetings were not without setbacks. Small arguments broke out
   sporadically throughout the day over the status of Jerusalem,
   Palestinian refugees, and the Kuwaiti ambassador taking the last three
   cream cheese packets.

   "We deserve unfettered access to the cream cheese," said the head of
   the Syrian parliament's foreign relations committee, Suleiman Haddad,
   addressing a group of delegates assembled near the milk and cream
   table. "This must not be taken away from us. It is unacceptable. What
   will we put on this bagel?"

   Tensions were relieved by some Syrian representatives who took a more
   conciliatory tone, pointing out that it's nearly impossible to find
   good bagels in their native country at all, while expressing hope that
   a more equitable cream cheese-sharing arrangement could be arrived at
   the following morning.
   [5]Enlarge Image Coffee 

   Syria's president and prime minister hold an emergency meeting near
   the coffee.

   In Tehran, meanwhile, Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who was
   not invited to the talks, was highly critical of the summit, claiming
   that the European-style breakfast was indicative of a pro-Israel bias.

   "It is quite obvious that the Annapolis summit will offer little real
   substance to those in attendance," Ahmadinejad said. "The little
   single-serving boxes of cereal are not even sizable enough to
   constitute a real meal."

   Nevertheless, many within the State Department said they were
   encouraged to witness a number of delegates working together to clean
   up a cup of spilled coffee. At one point, the Israeli prime minister
   even offered to give up extra napkins to Syria's president in order to
   stop the liquid from flowing over the side of the counter.

   In comments made to the Syrian state newspaper, Syrian prime minister
   Muhammad Naji al-Otari said he was confident there was even more to
   achieve during the conference.

   "I am pleased to report that there will be a variety of instant
   oatmeal flavors being offered in the near future," al-Otari said. "I
   am certainly looking forward to learning more about the apples and
   cinnamon, maple and brown sugar, and the plain oatmeal flavors."

   While the United States organized an opening-night gala to welcome the
   participating ambassadors, the Syrians did not attend the event,
   claiming they had to go to bed early in order to get plenty of sleep
   for some "very important business" they had to attend to at 7 a.m. the
   following day.


   WASHINGTON, DC--The National Anti- Quartering Association, America's
   foremost Third Amendment rights group, held its annual gala in
   Washington Monday to honor 191 consecutive years of advocating the
   protection of private homes and property against the unlawful boarding
   of military personnel.
   [4]Enlarge Image The National Anti-Quartering Association 

   "This is a proud day for quarters-owners everywhere," said the
   organization's president, Charles Davison, in his keynote address.
   "Year after year, we have sent a loud and clear message to the federal
   government and to anyone else who would attack our unassailable
   rights: Hands off our cottages, livery stables, and haylofts."

   The NAQA was created in 1816 in response to repeated violations of the
   Third Amendment during the War of 1812. The organization quickly grew
   in influence and cites its vigilance as the primary reason why the
   amendment has only been litigated once in a federal court since the
   Bill of Rights was ratified. The organization is also arguably the
   country's most powerful political lobby; every politician elected
   since 1866 has fully supported Third Amendment rights.

   "The framers of the Constitution provided the American people with the
   right to have their homes free of troops unless Congress mandates
   otherwise during a time of war," Davison said. "Thanks to our tireless
   efforts, six generations of civilians have never known the cruelty and
   duress of quartering unruly foot soldiers."

   Davison recalled the "dark days" of 1982, when the federal case of
   Engblom v. Carey threatened to strip Americans of their fundamental
   Third Amendment freedoms. The ruling by the Second Circuit Court of
   Appeals acknowledged that the State of New York had indeed violated
   the Third Amendment rights of the plaintiffs. The case, according to
   Davison, was "a chilling reminder of how even an established
   200-year-old right hangs by a slender thread."

   "I don't think people fully understand how close we came to completely
   losing such a basic right," Davison said. "If the Second Circuit had
   ruled otherwise, we'd be living in a world in which soldiers would be
   quartering amok upon our very hearthstones."

   Davison expressed pride in the NAQA's grassroots involvement at the
   local level, citing the association's direct-mailing campaigns and its
   fully staffed regional centers where citizens can report Third
   Amendment rights abuses. The NAQA also holds quartering-safety
   seminars for citizens interested in learning how to effectively defend
   their households against U.S. troops seeking shelter.

   Davison reiterated the organization's promise to oppose pro-quartering
   legislation should any ever be proposed.

   "Keep the fat hands of soldiers out of America's larders!" Davison
   said to rousing applause. He was quoting the NAQA's familiar slogan,
   which can be found on T-shirts, bumper stickers, and other merchandise
   sold on the group's website.

   Davison ended his address by warning of the dangers of the NAQA
   resting on its laurels.

   "Pro-quartering advocates are waiting for just the right moment to
   stick a bunch of troops in our homes," Davison said. "Well, I say to
   them that we will never allow this to happen. You can count on the
   true patriots of the NAQA to ensure that no chickens and livestock
   will be appropriated, and private stores of salt, brandy, candles, and
   vinegar will stay firmly where they belong: in civilian hands."

   The NAQA is known for its quick and aggressive mobilization when it
   believes Third Amendment rights are at risk, and has rushed to the
   defense of homeowners it believes are being illegally coerced into
   housing American soldiers. Last month, 200 NAQA members marched on a
   private residence in Fairfax, VA after receiving a tip that the owners
   were being victimized by three Navy seamen demanding prolonged
   quartering. They ended their demonstration, however, when it was
   discovered that the sailors were brothers on shore leave visiting
   their parents.

   Davison, 49, has headed the NAQA since January, replacing longtime
   president Lawrence Frost. Frost, 58, left the organization to chair
   the Citizens Committee for the Right to Drink, a 21st Amendment rights
   group committed to the continued legal status of alcohol for Americans
   of drinking age.


   CHICAGO--Producers of the long-running Chicago Public Radio program
   This American Life announced Monday that they have completed their
   comprehensive 12-year survey of life as a modern upper-middle-class
   American.
   [4]Enlarge Image Ira Glass 

   Ira Glass compares completing the series to finding out he is a
   relative of composer Philip Glass.

   In what cultural anthropologists are calling a "colossal achievement"
   in the study of white-collar professionals, the popular radio show has
   successfully isolated all 7,442 known characteristics of college
   graduates who earn between $62,500 and $125,000 per year and feel
   strongly that something should be done about global warming.

   "We've done it," said senior producer Julie Snyder, who was personally
   interviewed for a 2003 This American Life episode, "Going Eclectic,"
   in which she described what it's like to be a bilingual member of the
   ACLU trained in kite-making by a Japanese stepfather. "There is not a
   single existential crisis or self-congratulatory epiphany that has
   been or could be experienced by a left-leaning agnostic that we have
   not exhaustively documented and grouped by theme."

   Added Snyder, "We here at public radio couldn't be more pleased with
   ourselves."

   The final episode, which explored the universal tribulations of having
   to live with roommates again in one's mid-30s after a divorce,
   provided an apt bookend for the project. The completed work is
   expected to be an indispensable source of information for years to
   come about the thoughts and tastes of bespectacled cynics prone to
   neuroses who are actually doing just fine.
     Topics Covered

   This American Life host and producer Ira Glass began work on the
   project in 1995 in Chicago, where he found himself inspired by and
   catering to an audience of professionals who dine out frequently and
   have a hard time getting angry. Glass and his team of producers,
   writers, and interns set about the exhausting task of gathering all
   available information on a range of subjects from minor skirmishes
   with the law to the rewards of occasionally talking to poor people.
   The raw data was then analyzed, deconstructed, reconstructed,
   re-deconstructed, organized under a broad philosophical title, and
   interspliced with musical interludes by rock duo They Might Be Giants.

   Though This American Life is now lauded as the definitive source for
   material about getting an autistic teenager admitted to Harvard, its
   early run was marked by painful trial-and-error, according to producer
   Alex Blumberg.

   "At first, we were getting a lot of stories from recovered drug
   addicts and East African refugees living in the States, which had
   their compelling elements but came off a bit cloying," Blumberg said.
   "But then we realized that if we had overeducated people with voices
   rather unsuitable for radio narrate the stories with clever analogies
   and accessible morals, the whole thing would come off far less
   depressing."

   Blumberg said that the turning point came in 1997, when producers
   discovered a group of inner-city schoolchildren inadvertently teaching
   an important lesson to their attractive, suburban-raised teacher about
   what makes us human.

   Also aiding the study were the many contributors to This American
   Life, who took time from their best-selling essay-writing careers to
   donate personal anecdotes about dropping out of prestigious art
   schools, taking harrowing but poignant childhood vacations to the
   Grand Canyon, and the unique challenges of growing up in families
   supportive of their homosexuality.

   On Sunday, writer and contributing editor Sarah Vowell called the
   project's end "oddly anticlimactic," but questioned whether work was
   actually complete because the show had not yet addressed the subject
   of "Things Ending."

   "Seeing this project through to its culmination was equally satisfying
   and strange," said Vowell, speaking at a book signing in Colonial
   Williamsburg dressed as Betsy Ross. "I feel not unlike the early
   Pilgrims, who, standing atop Plymouth Rock after a long and arduous
   sea voyage, reflected on their journey, perhaps thinking to themselves
   'For God's sake--doesn't anybody have anything to eat in this
   settlement?'"

   Glass, who personally contributed over 2,000 anecdotes from his own
   life for documentation, called the project's conclusion the "end of an
   era."

   "When we finished, I have to tell you, I felt something I never
   expected: a profound sense of contentment--maybe even relief," Glass
   said. "Afterwards, the other producers and I sat around for a long
   while, remarking on how interesting and strange it was to finally
   complete the study, and how perhaps it is, in some way, symbolic of
   life in general."


   NEW YORK--In a year that saw the release of such best-selling products
   as the Motorola RAZR 2 V8 and the wildly popular Casio XD-SW4800
   handheld dictionary, no personal electronics product launch was more
   highly anticipated than the November 13 debut of the second-generation
   Microsoft Zune mp3 player.
     Thousands Wait

   Consumers eagerly line up outside New York City's famous 5th Avenue
   24-hour Microsoft Store.

   The sleek new Zune, whose record-breaking sales have made the Zune
   name synonymous with "mp3 player," was so sought-after that thousands
   formed long lines outside hip, minimalist Microsoft Stores across the
   country days before the device went on sale. In Midtown Manhattan, the
   hysteria reached such a fever pitch that some were willing to pay as
   much as $200 for a spot in line.

   "How could you not want one?" said self-described "Microsoft fanatic"
   Maria Arkin, who, like many others scrambling to be among the first to
   get their hands on the new Zune, expressed disappointment upon
   learning that sales were limited to just two units per customer. "It's
   amazing. There's just nothing else like it on the market."

   Arkin added, "Plus, it's small enough to fit in my pocket--right next
   to my cell phone!"

   Even skeptics have found it difficult to deny the Zune's appeal. With
   its video capability, "squircle"-shaped control pad, Microsoft logo
   emblazoned on the back, and iconic black earbuds, it has become a
   must-have item for everyone from high-powered executives to trendy
   young scenesters. Many consumers consider owning the newest model of
   Zune to be the most essential status symbol of the past 10 years,
   hailing it as the hallmark fashion accessory of the so-called "Zune
   Generation."

   "The second-generation Zune has it all," said Brian Lam, editor in
   chief of Gizmodo, a popular tech blog. "It's got a great design, and
   the cult of personality that the undeniably charismatic Bill Gates has
   created with his Microsoft product launches only adds to the Zune's
   desirability."

   Though the Zune continues to dominate the world of personal
   electronics, technology experts believe it will quickly be
   overshadowed by the fall 2008 launch of the hotly anticipated new
   Texas Instruments TI-Nspire graphing calculator.


   AUGUSTA, GA--World No. 1-ranked golfer Tiger Woods, after appearing to
   struggle through the weekend--playing with uncharacteristic
   inconsistency, bogeying twice in the final rounds, and breaking
   clubs--shocked the crowd at Augusta by stripping off a carefully
   crafted mask and revealing that he had created the character of "Zach
   Johnson," played both Johnson's rounds and his own, and was in fact
   the winner of this year's Masters.
   [4]Enlarge Image Tiger Woods 

   "Did you seriously think I was going to lose this weekend?" Woods
   said, holding his "Johnson" mask aloft just moments after sinking
   "Johnson's" final putt as the gallery, surprised and relieved to have
   witnessed the Tiger Woods triumph they came to see, redoubled their
   cheers. "No way. This tournament was mine from the beginning. My only
   regret was that I was so busy playing 'Johnson's' game and mine
   simultaneously that 'Tiger's' score suffered."

   "But I did it to prove something to myself. They say in golf, the only
   person who can beat a true champion is himself," Woods said, peeling
   back the latex from his arms. "And that's exactly what happened here
   today."

   The revelation is the ultimate twist to a story that began to unfold
   when "Johnson," by all accounts an unknown Iowan, began to pull away
   from the field in the final round. As the world watched what they
   thought was a scrappy underdog with an uncommonly cool head supposedly
   playing the game of his life, "Johnson" shot a three-under 69 in his
   final round and held off a late challenge from an unusually, almost
   suspiciously, harried Woods.

   "As 'Zach,' I had an entirely different swing, which was part of the
   challenge of the whole persona," Woods said. "I also had to putt
   differently in order to make it look authentic, and some shots I'd
   normally hit well had to go into the trees to throw people off. It
   tested the limits of even my considerable talent."

   As tension mounted, the heavily disguised Woods found his attention
   completely occupied with the strain of not only playing "Johnson's"
   game, but maintaining the soft-spoken character of his new persona by
   giving self-effacing interviews laced with Christian rhetoric,
   conferring with the actress hired to pose as his wife Kim, and holding
   the rubber doll that served as his baby.

   "Naturally, in the end, I found my actual game suffered, and I tied
   for second with [Rory] Sabbatini and [Retief] Goosen," Woods said,
   while throwing his costume's amazingly lifelike latex arm-sheaths to
   the crowd. "Put on the Johnson costume, shoot his hole, take off the
   Johnson costume, shoot Tiger's hole. Tough day. I doubt anyone else
   could have done it and scored a combined four-over. I even came in
   second with all the strain, and I'm Tiger Woods."

   "Still... When Johnson bogeyed 17 by missing a three-foot putt, then
   came back to save par on the last?" Woods continued. "Classic Tiger. I
   can't believe people didn't realize that Zach Johnson was in fact me
   right then and there. Who else could it be?"

   "Although I have to say, I almost had me on the last few holes--bad
   driver, but if I'd sunk the birdie putt on 16, I close within a shot
   of myself with two holes left," Woods added. "And trust me--if any man
   alive can make a disguised Tiger Woods wilt under pressure, it's me."

   Woods' announcement sent a wave of combined amazement and relief
   throughout the golf world.

   "On a windy, cold day like this, for Tiger to fade the way he did?
   Unheard of. Practically unthinkable," said ESPN analyst Andy North.
   "And then for a no-name long shot from Iowa to come from literally
   nowhere to beat him and win it all? Unbelievable. Either story would
   have rocked the golf world. Together, they might have shattered it if
   they had come true."

   "Luckily for us all, they didn't," North added. "Tiger's still Tiger,
   even when he's Zach Johnson."

   Many are calling Woods the first golfer ever to finish a major in both
   first and second place, though golf historians have been quick to
   point out the 18-hole playoff in the 1942 Masters in which Ben Hogan
   defeated "Byron Nelson."


   SAN ANTONIO--San Antonio Spurs All-Star center Tim Duncan told
   reporters yesterday that he is rooting for the Cleveland Cavaliers to
   win this year's NBA Finals, stating that a Cavaliers victory is
   "exactly what the NBA needs right now."
   [4]Enlarge Image Tim Duncan 

   "They're an exciting team, a breath of fresh air, and with the way
   this year's playoffs have gone, something interesting definitely needs
   to happen," said Duncan, adding that with the Cavaliers in the Finals
   people will "finally have a reason to watch [the NBA]."  "Since the
   Western Conference immediately became dull when the Phoenix Suns were
   eliminated, the league has been gasping for a team that transcends
   basketball and appeals to the casual fan."

   "Quite frankly, if the Cavs win, I really don't know who loses,"
   Duncan added.

   According to Duncan, one of the main reasons he wants the Cavaliers to
   win the championship is so that Cleveland small forward LeBron James
   has a chance to flourish in the national spotlight.

   "LeBron has a certain magnetism a lot of other players don't have,"
   Duncan said. "Not only is he the best player on his team, but he is
   also charismatic, which is rare. He's the only player I can think of
   that the league can market on a global scale, but the only way the NBA
   can do that is if Cleveland wins the title. Fingers crossed that they
   do."

   Though Duncan said it would be optimal for James to hit a game-winning
   jumper in the closing seconds of Game 7 to win the championship, he
   stated it would be equally beneficial for the league if James simply
   dominates from the outset of Game 1, is given the opportunity to show
   off his tremendous athletic ability, and sends his opponents home
   early.

   "No matter what, an NBA Finals that ends in a Cavaliers victory will
   be fun to watch," Duncan said. "Much more fun than a bunch of guys
   with no real personality playing good, fundamental basketball, which
   is basically the type of thing you can expect from mind-numbing teams
   like the Pistons and the Jazz."

   "Most important," Duncan said, "the league needs a team that inspires
   kids to get out on the court, run up and down and take the ball to the
   basket--not a team that dumps it into their big man and lets him do
   all the work. That's why I didn't root for the Miami Heat last year."

   "Go Cavs!" added Duncan, who then put on a LeBron James jersey and a
   Cavaliers cap.

   Duncan isn't the only one in the Spurs organization openly rooting for
   the Cavaliers. Coach Greg Popovich, Tony Parker, Manu Ginobili, and
   team owner Peter Holt all agreed that a Cavaliers victory would be an
   excellent story for the league.

   "The NBA has been looking for a premier team since Michael Jordan led
   the Bulls to six NBA championships," Popovich said. "Truthfully, I
   couldn't even tell you what teams have won NBA titles since."

   In addition to current players and league officials, former players
   such as Dennis Rodman, Sean Elliot, and David Robinson have come out
   backing the Cavaliers. Even fans from cities other than Cleveland have
   voiced their support.

   "To be honest, in the past couple of years I have watched more college
   basketball than the NBA," said San Antonio resident Derek Hill. "But
   there's something about the Cavaliers that gives me a reason to keep
   watching them, something that really draws me in. They're really a lot
   of, you know, what's the word... Fun."


   WILMETTE, IL--The life of recent college graduate Jeremy Fahey was
   forever changed earlier this month when the once outgoing and carefree
   student succumbed to a job offer at a local insurance claims firm, an
   unforeseen and tragic event that will most likely keep him confined to
   an office chair for the rest of his life.
   [4]Enlarge Image Tragic Event 

   While he can sometimes rise from his office chair under his own power,
   Fahey said he can only do so with "great difficulty."

   While many details remain unclear, it is now believed that Fahey lost
   any and all upward mobility moments after being hired for a data entry
   position at Sedgwick Enterprises on the morning of July 25. According
   to several eyewitnesses at the scene, the impact of Fahey's full-time
   employment was so sudden and crushing that it has left the former high
   school track star paralyzed in front of his work computer screen ever
   since.

   "You hear stories about it all the time, but you never think that
   something like this is going to happen to you," said Fahey, who now
   spends most days trapped inside a windowless cubicle, and only leaves
   his office chair in order to use the bathroom. "It's funny: One minute
   you have your entire future ahead of you, and the next thing you know,
   you practically need someone to drag you out of bed in the morning."

   Due to Fahey's condition, simple, everyday tasks such as grocery
   shopping, walking his dog, or even just cleaning up after himself have
   become virtually impossible feats. In addition, Fahey admitted that he
   has been forced to abandon a number of his favorite activities, from
   jogging in the park to just kicking his feet up and watching daytime
   television.

   Fahey, who claims to have lost "all sense of purpose" due to this
   harrowing turn of events, is already finding it difficult to remember
   a time when he "didn't feel completely numb."

   "People keep telling me that it's going to get easier, that I won't
   always be stuck in this position, but right now, every minute of every
   day is a struggle," Fahey said.

   In recent weeks, Fahey has also found himself requiring the aid of
   various stimulants and drugs, such as caffeine, sugar, and even
   alcohol, just to get through the day. Worse yet, those close to the
   once lively 22-year-old report that he has become almost entirely
   dependent on computers to communicate with those around him.

   "I realize that what happened to Jeremy is nobody's fault, but still I
   sometimes wish I could have my old buddy back," said longtime friend
   Derrick Hodge, who recently visited Jeremy in his cubicle. "At first I
   tried pretending like nothing had changed, but every time I looked at
   him all I could see was that...that chair."

   News of Fahey's debilitating employment has left his loved ones
   shocked and feeling helpless.

   "Jeremy had such a bright future--he could have gone on to do anything
   he wanted," said Michelle Fahey, who claimed that she almost didn't
   recognize her brother. "To see him like this now, in that button-down
   dress shirt and those pleated slacks, it's almost too much to bear."

   "He didn't deserve this," she added. "Nobody deserves this."

   While Fahey has often thought about quitting for good, one thing has
   kept him going through it all.

   "Sometimes I imagine what a relief it would be if I just gave up all
   together, if I never had to deal with another weekday ever again,"
   Fahey said. "But then I think about my school loans and my credit card
   debt, and I know I have no choice but to keep going."


   SACRAMENTO, CA--Claiming that it is "something every man deserves to
   do once," local resident Carl Hilland, 32, told reporters Monday that,
   before he dies, he would like to throw a good, clean punch to
   somebody's face.
   [4]Enlarge Image Area Man Hopes 

   Hilland stands on a street that would be a perfect location for such a
   punch.

   "I want to make a guy's head snap back like in the movies," Hilland
   said. "All I want is the satisfaction of knowing that at one point in
   my life, I threw a straight right hand with complete balance and
   didn't look foolish doing it, and in a situation where my actions were
   completely justified."

   "Pow," he added, punching the air. "I honestly don't think that's too
   much to ask."

   Hilland, who is right-handed, characterized the ideal punch as "quick
   and clean," adding that he has no interest in throwing a "crazy"
   punch, such as an uppercut or a left hook. The husband and father of
   three also insisted that he is realistic in his expectations for the
   punch, and does not want to cause permanent damage or knock the victim
   out immediately. All he wants, Hillard said, is to throw the punch at
   an age when he will at least be able to "stun the guy a little."

   "This isn't about cowardice, hysteria, or blind rage," Hilland said.
   "It's about me, as a man, getting the chance to act like a man for
   once in my life."

   Hilland, who works as a group benefits consultant and characterizes
   himself as "pretty reserved," said that the approximately five punches
   he has thrown through the years don't count because of their
   nonviolent nature and social context. In each case, he was either
   hitting a friend in response to seeing a car with a burnt-out
   headlight or testing how much force he could generate with only a
   two-inch windup.

   "I did punch a wall once," said Hilland, who admitted that he took
   little satisfaction in it. "First off, I was just trying to make a
   scene, and everyone knew it. And secondly, a little scuff mark isn't
   the same as seeing blood stream out of a guy's nose, which is what I
   think will happen if I really get all my weight behind it."

   Added Hilland, attempting another air swing: "Boom."

   Hilland said the primary obstacle he faces is that he is seldom, if
   ever, in a position to punch anyone. He has not been in an angry
   physical altercation since the fourth grade, and even during those
   years was impeded by an unspoken "no-face" rule during fights. As a
   result, almost all schoolyard clashes consisted of one contestant
   wrestling the other to the ground while administering a headlock.

   "There was some whaling on people's backs, but it was all pretty
   sloppy," he said."And besides, a punch isn't really a punch unless you
   hit a person, then immediately shake your hand because the impact was
   surprisingly painful. Right?"

   The best-case scenario, which Hilland outlined at length, would
   include throwing the defining blow while defending his wife when "lots
   of people are watching." However, in order to carry the necessary
   psychological weight, the situation "has to happen organically,"
   Hilland said.

   "I'm just going to go on with my day-to-day routine and be patient,"
   Hilland added, though sources at his workplace noted that lately he
   seems to be escalating verbal disputes rather than defusing them. "I
   would even settle for hitting someone in the stomach, but it would
   have to be one of those body shots where they fall to the ground after
   gasping for air for a few seconds."

   "No, forget that," he continued. "It has to be to the face."


   WASHINGTON--Responding to a foul stench emanating from the mouths of
   Americans nationwide, officials from the U.S. Department of Breath and
   Human Services issued an emergency announcement Tuesday warning that
   American breath quality has been elevated to "stank mouth," the
   poorest single rating in the nation's 231-year history.
   [4]Enlarge Image U.S. Breath Reaches All-Time Worst 

   DBHS Secretary Michael Leavitt shields reporters from his coffee
   mouth.

   In a solemn announcement, DBHS Secretary Michael Leavitt informed the
   nation that his organization initially considered ignoring the
   findings, believing that the situation would resolve itself after the
   next routine tooth-brushing.

   "After several days with no improvement in odor, it became painfully
   clear that this agency simply had to say something," Leavitt said.

   Leavitt maintained that DBHS is doing all it can and will continue to
   observe the worsening crisis from at least three feet away.

   Added Leavitt, "I am compelled to ask the American people: What did
   you eat?"

   Attempting to handle the awkward national emergency in the most
   delicate manner, health officials at first theorized that everyone in
   the country had been out late the night before and did not have a
   chance to freshen up in the morning. But after more than 400,000
   uncomfortable conversations, officials deemed it necessary to notify
   the American public in order to prevent the loss of more social lives.

   "We can no longer afford to turn our heads away and ignore this
   problem," Leavitt said.

   Leavitt urged all Americans to accept a breath mint or a stick of gum,
   or, if such items are not available, a carbonated drink, which he
   claimed was not clinically proven to be an effective remedy, although
   there is some evidence that the carbon dioxide molecules may in effect
   "burn away" stink germs temporarily.

   Despite the urgency and magnitude of DBHS's announcement, some critics
   maintain that the response has been shortsighted and only aimed at
   making the problem temporarily smell like mint. Some even claim the
   putrid smell might already be irreversible.

   "This Band-Aid approach will work, but only for a few hours at most,"
   said Walter Romano, D.D.S., a Cleveland-area dentist who has begun
   handing out free toothbrushes and stickers depicting sound oral
   hygiene to residents in his area. "This country hasn't flossed in
   years. In fact, I believe some people have even made the ill-advised
   decision to gargle not with mouthwash, but almost exclusivley with dog
   shit."

   Others claim the problem is even worse than health officials are
   letting on.

   "This is a full-blown stenchademic," said Dr. Guy Hammond, a leading
   researcher of smelliness, who added that the catastrophe will only
   worsen with dinner approaching. "Before long, the U.S. will surpass
   even Britain as the nation with the worst breath in the Western
   world."
   [5]Enlarge Image 

   A Tempe, AZ resident's mouth is sanitized by emergency oral hygiene
   workers.

   According to an independent study conducted by Hammond, the percentage
   of Americans whose breath could scare the stink off a skunk increased
   dramatically over the past year, from 17 percent to 29 percent, while
   the number of citizens whose breath could peel paint off the wall went
   up from 23 percent to 45 percent. The remainder of Americans, the
   study found, had breath so bad it could sink a battleship.

   While no direct cause has been determined for the sudden spike in
   ass-mouth, officials believe it may be connected to a combination of
   garlic, onion, meat, cheese, tobacco, coffee, alcohol, plaque,
   laziness, and bodily fluids.

   With initial tests showing the rancid odor to be virtually impervious
   to multiple applications of Big Red, Leavitt said his agency is urging
   citizens to avoid inhaling through their noses, and cover their mouths
   when they talk.

   "Sadly, millions of Americans were raised to believe they could cup
   their hand and put it over their face to smell their breath," Leavitt
   told reporters. "But our top scientists and health experts informed me
   personally about 20 minutes ago that this method does not work."

   DBHS has embarked on a widespread campaign to eliminate the deadly
   odors found in almost every mouth in the country.  Refreshing relief
   has been slow to come, however: Efforts to deliver 30,000 gallons of
   ACT rinse to the hardest-hit regions of the country have stalled
   because so many National Guardsmen are already deployed in Iraq and
   the rest refused to go anywhere near the most troubled cities. In
   addition, attempts by FEMA workers to distribute Tic Tacs to citizens
   in Alabama and Texas also failed when hundreds were injured attempting
   to open the plastic boxes' flip-action lids.

   On Wednesday, officials at the Center for Gum Disease Control and
   Prevention announced plans to quarantine those with the severest
   halitosis, though they warned that concentrating so much rotting
   breath in one place could make the entire nation puke simultaneously.


   WASHINGTON, DC--The Department of Homeland Security announced Monday
   that its Counter-Counterterrorism Unit successfully carried out its
   largest and most complex anti-anti-terror exercise to date, destroying
   the Washington Monument in a massive explosion that left 122 dead,
   dozens more injured, and the area around the National Mall a chaotic
   scene of smoke and debris.
   [4]Enlarge Image Washington Monument 

   "We learned from Sept. 11 that we can't just sit back and wait for the
   terrorists to attack us," said DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff at a
   press conference held in front of an on-site triage tent, gesturing to
   the blackened stump of the 122-year-old obelisk as divers pulled
   bodies from the nearby reflecting pool. "We still have a lot of work
   to do, but this operation exceeded our expectations. If we hadn't
   destroyed the Washington Monument today, we would never have known how
   vulnerable it was to attack."

   "Now it can never be destroyed by terrorists," Chertoff added.

   While the counterterrorism unit assigned to protect Washington, D.C.'s
   landmarks was recognized for its "loyal service," Chertoff said the
   counter-counterterrorism team deserved special praise for having had
   "such a profound impact" on the future of American security.

   The CCU was created in 2004 in response to the lack of terror activity
   since the Sept. 11 attacks. Its main tasks include raising awareness
   among the American public of the "myriad unknown threats" that still
   face the country, while also testing the readiness and effectiveness
   of the nation's counterterrorism program by exposing agents to
   real-world scenarios. Last winter, the eight-man
   Counter-Counterterrorism Unit was prevented from blowing up the Statue
   of Liberty and from releasing deadly sarin gas at a Los Angeles Lakers
   basketball game. But sources within DHS said they believed CCU's
   months of planning and reconnaissance paid off in the latest exercise.
   [5]Enlarge Image Suspected Targets 

   The CCU's after-action report showed that the team began the mission
   by convening outside the monument at 10:23 a.m., disguised as
   counterterrorism officers. Commanding officer Commanding Officer Sgt.
   Campbell Payton, who is believed to be the leader of the group, then
   ordered sharpshooters stationed around the perimeter to begin
   eliminating security personnel, and sent a four-man team to choose
   hostages from the terrified tourists at the scene.

   After taking control of the area, Payton tested his counterterrorism
   adversaries by demanding the release of all Guantanamo Bay detainees.
   When U.S. hostage negotiators said they would "see what they could
   do," they were shot dead by accompanying CCU agents for breaking a
   strict DHS policy against negotiating with terrorists.

   "Events like those today prove just how real the threat is--how none
   of us is safe," said acting White House Press Secretary Dana Perino
   during a briefing today. "The White House is looking forward to many
   more exercises of this kindto ensure that we can fully protect
   high-value targets and keep this important work on the minds of the
   American public."
     Michael Chertoff

   "Now [the Washington Monument] can never be destroyed by terrorists."

   DHS Secretary
   Michael Chertoff

   David C. Reynolds, a linguist in the DHS's terrorism prevention task
   force who has an office between the counterterrorism unit and the
   counter-counterterrorism group, said he was shaken by the loss of so
   many close associates.

   "I'll miss having them around," Reynolds said. "I'm mourning the
   friends who died combating and carrying out this momentous act, but at
   least I know their sacrifice was not in vain."

   President Bush, who has already declared a state of emergency in the
   area, is scheduled to tour the wreckage tomorrow. In a statement
   released today, Bush urged Congress to pass a proposed $291 million
   spending package for the counter-counterterrorism program, while
   pointing out "the clear need" to provide the counterterrorism program
   with better training and equipment.

   "By shattering the Washington Monument, the peace of our nation's
   capital, and dozens of people's lives, the dedicated counter-
   counterterrorists have proven just how devastating a determined enemy
   can be," the statement read in part. "These brave men showed those who
   would seek to do us harm and those whose job it is to stop them that
   America is not to be trifled with."

   Special officer Jeremy Stillwell, the only member of the
   counter-counterterrorism unit to survive the exercise, died early
   yesterday morning while being questioned by
   counter-counter-counterterrorism personnel.


   WASHINGTON--Barely two months after U.N. inspectors in Iran failed to
   find evidence of an active nuclear weapons program, the Department of
   Homeland Security uncovered new information Monday proving the Middle
   Eastern nation has obtained literally trillions of atoms--the same
   particles sometimes used to make atomic bombs--for unknown purposes.
   [4]Enlarge Image Condoleezza Rice 

   Condoleezza Rice displays for reporters one of the many varieties of
   atoms Iran is believed to already possess.

   "We have no doubt that Iran now possesses an alarming number of atoms
   within its borders, despite countless warnings from the international
   community," Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff said at a
   press conference Monday afternoon, as he pointed to a satellite image
   marked with dozens of locations where his office claims the
   unauthorized atoms are being held. "The Iranians maintain the atoms
   are only being used to form the building blocks of all existence, but
   we cannot afford to take that risk."

   The atoms, which DHS officials believe to be "the smallest indivisible
   units of any element," were first discovered in aerial photographs
   taken of a laboratory in central Isfahan. When the photographs were
   enlarged several hundred thousand times, additional clusters of
   atoms--known in intelligence circles as "matter"--were spotted in
   large cargo trucks parked nearby the facility, in storage units on the
   grounds, and in the pockets, shoes, clothing, hair, and skin of
   several nuclear physicists in the parking lot.

   More alarming, officials said, is the "very likely" possibility that
   there are more atoms inside the laboratory.

   "The threat of atoms in Iran is real," said Chertoff, showing
   reporters an empty vial to illustrate his point. "Even as we speak,
   Iranians are turning millions of carbon atoms into a powerful energy
   source they can use to strengthen their armies, pilots, president, and
   someday perhaps, a team of nuclear physicists."
     Condoleezza Rice

   'We could get into a situation where Iran has so many atoms that its
   increased atomic weight allows it to bully its neighbors.'

   Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice

   Earlier this month, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice made a visit
   to the region, where she reportedly observed atoms being smuggled
   across the border from neighboring countries Iraq and Afghanistan, as
   well as daily shipments of atoms from as far away as Russia, China,
   and the troposphere. Secretary Rice also witnessed atoms being
   strategically used to deliver televised press conferences regarding
   the nonproliferation of Iranian atoms.

   "Security checkpoints have been unable to stop the flow of atoms into
   Iran," Rice said. "Even with the best equipment available, it is
   nearly impossible to distinguish dangerous atoms that could be used in
   fission for the purposes of massive destruction from the kind of atoms
   that are functioning primarily as mechanical pencils."

   Added Rice: "We cannot afford to let these atoms fall into, or be a
   part of, the wrong hands."

   Vice President Dick Cheney and his staff were briefed on the atomic
   situation in Iran Tuesday with the aid of colorful interlocking
   plastic models and a short film.

   "The United States will not stand idly by while Iran gains the
   protons, neutrons, and whatever else they need to threaten the free
   world," Cheney said at a press conference that afternoon. "Iran has
   demonstrated time and time again its ability to combine atoms of
   hydrogen and oxygen right out in the open, and we cannot allow that to
   go on any longer."

   Iranian officials claim the atoms are being used only for peaceful,
   life-sustaining purposes, and that it is physically impossible for
   Iran or any government to create or destroy matter in order to comply
   with U.S. regulations.

   Next month, U.N. inspectors will visit Iran to investigate and catalog
   all of the nation's current atomic holdings in order to determine if
   the country may be stockpiling dangerous atoms in unregistered
   laboratories, underground facilities, above-ground facilities, the
   citizenry, air, water, soil, grass, shoes, picnic lunches, pets, flaky
   pastries, or the numerous nuclear warheads the country has recently
   featured in parades.

   Navy football

   WASHINGTON, DC--As combined American forces celebrate two consecutive
   football wins against the Notre Dame Fighting Irish while
   simultaneously marking the loss of the 3,150th soldier to hostile
   action in Iraq, many are left wondering if the United States military
   is in fact focusing its energies on the correct opponent.

   "There is no doubt that Navy's recent 46-44 defeat of a motivated,
   entrenched Notre Dame team after a long drawn-out battle was a
   masterpiece of leadership, strategy, tactics, and bravery in the
   finest tradition of the service," said Grant Hughson, an editor at
   Jane's Sporting News. "And the total Air Force 41-24 domination of the
   Irish, accomplished by bringing to bear the sort of overwhelming force
   against which no opponent can retaliate, was a textbook execution of
   the doctrines of that particular branch of the American armed forces.
   Meanwhile, however, they seem to be making little or no headway in
   Iraq."

   As the troop surge in Iraq draws to a close, sectarian and insurgent
   activity seems to have slowed to a near-standstill. However, with the
   2007 death toll exceeding 850, more U.S. troops have been lost this
   year than in any other since major combat operations began, throwing
   the military's first victory over Notre Dame since 1963 into stark
   contrast.

   "Strange how history repeats itself," Navy historian and football
   commentator John Feinstein said after the Air Force victory was
   reported alongside the news that the U.S. was preparing to reduce
   their commitment in Iraq by at least one battalion. "I don't think
   anyone who saw it will deny that Roger Staubach's '63 victory over the
   Golden Domers was inspiring, but I'd bet any money that at the time
   the Pentagon would've traded it for a victory in Vietnam."

   Reactions to the armed forces' lopsided record of domestic and
   overseas success has been mixed, with many fans of the military
   pointing out that, while both football and war can be brutal, bloody,
   and final, the outcomes of combat may take decades to become clear.

   "It's important to realize that our young men have been fighting
   pitched battles against religious fanatics who have been brainwashed
   into a culture that seeks to destroy all other ways of life," Air
   Force head coach Troy Calhoun said Monday. "That's just the way Notre
   Dame football is, the way it's always been. You can't reason with
   people like that. You destroy them as completely, remorselessly, and
   quickly as you can."

   "Naturally, the young men of our service academy will find the
   situation infinitely more complex when they're deployed to Iraq," Navy
   head coach Paul Johnson added. "Compare football to war all you want,
   but unlike when you go into South Bend, winning in Baghdad means
   winning the hearts and minds of the people, not pursuing some sort of
   scorched-earth policy."

   Gen. David Petraeus, the top U.S. commander in Iraq and architect of
   the military's much-criticized current counterinsurgency strategy,
   offered no comment on whether or not the U.S. was any closer to
   following up its victories against Notre Dame with one or more
   much-needed victories in Iraq. However, the West Point graduate did
   express his disgust with the recent "friendly fire" incident in which
   the Air Force Falcons shelled the Army Black Knights 30-10 and voiced
   his support for installing some variation of the option in order to
   increase the Army's offensive capabilities.


   WASHINGTON--Millions of Americans and thousands of federal employees
   awoke Monday to find the national mail service in disarray after a
   group of rowdy teens on a joyride reportedly destroyed up to 90
   percent of the postal service's nationwide infrastructure with a
   baseball bat.
   [4]Enlarge Image USPS rubble 

   New York's famed post office was reduced to rubble after one of the
   teens got an especially good whack in on it.

   Citing more than $45 billion in damages from the late-night escapade,
   the United States Postal Service has suspended all mail delivery and
   requested relief aid to rebuild more than 650 demolished post offices.
   The agency is also seeking supplemental funding to clean up the
   letters, packages, and crushed Budweiser can the teens left in their
   wake.

   "These hooligans have absolutely no respect for property, fellow
   residents, or their country," Postmaster General John E. Potter said
   as he picked up pieces of the USPS headquarters that had flown across
   the street and into a neighboring yard. "This is the third postal
   service I've had to replace this year."

   According to police documents, Potter told investigators he was
   working late at his office Sunday night when, around 11:30 p.m., he
   heard the sound of a loud muffler and rock music coming from outside
   USPS headquarters. Potter said he ran outside to see what was
   happening, but by the time he arrived the teens were speeding off down
   a gravel road, giving him only enough time to throw a crab apple at
   the departing car, which he described as "a rusted-out old Buick."

   Authorities have thus far not been able to identify the teens
   responsible, who remain at large and in serious trouble.

   "It's those Murphy twins and their no-good friend Tim Strougle,"
   Potter said while shaking a broom. "What they did was destruction of
   property, plain and simple. Those kids should know better than to
   tamper with a federal mail service agency--it's a felony."

   Potter went on to argue that the irresponsible teens should have to
   personally pay the rebuilding costs of his agency's infrastructure, a
   punishment he believes would "teach them a lesson they won't soon
   forget."

   Added Potter, "Someone's going to have to spend a whole day digging a
   new hole for that foundation."
   [5]Enlarge Image Postmaster General 

   Postmaster General John Potter cleans up the capital in the aftermath
   of the teens' joyride.

   Though FBI agents assigned to investigate the nationwide act of
   vandalism would not comment on any potential leads, they did disclose
   that the task force has ruled out a number of suspects, including
   those two Anderson boys from just up on Hoyt Road.

   "Sure, they've gotten into trouble in the past, but [their father]
   Dave [Anderson] set them straight after the shenanigans they pulled
   last Halloween," said Special Agent Brian Richards, who told reporters
   the FBI was enlisting the help of municipal law- enforcement agencies
   and snoopy neighbors from across the country in the investigation.
   "Nor do we have reason to believe that Shane and Lance McMurray were
   involved in this terrible crime. They're good boys. Mowed my lawn last
   summer."

   Tampa resident Eric Thompson, 39, was one of countless American
   citizens outraged by the night of teenage mischief.

   "I just don't get it," said Thompson, standing in front of his broken
   local postal branch. "Why would someone want to ruin a perfectly good
   post office? Don't they have anything better to do? If this is what
   kids today do for fun, I don't know what to tell you."

   Added Thompson: "Now I'm not going to get my magazines until who knows
   when."

   While many Americans remain convinced that whichever local teens are
   responsible should be punished to the full extent of the law, some
   feel the public is overreacting.

   "Everyone's getting all riled up over nothing," Attorney General
   Michael Mukasey said. "The U.S. Postal Service got a little banged
   up--so what? We did the same thing when we were younger."

   "Who knows, maybe old man Barrington ran over the damn things,"
   Mukasey added. "He shouldn't even have a license anymore, he's so darn
   nearsighted. I wouldn't be surprised if he knocked over all those
   buildings and didn't even realize he did it."

   On Tuesday, the USPS announced they have begun taking extreme measures
   to prevent further destruction of federal property. As part of the new
   strategy, beginning next month security officers will take posts in
   the bushes surrounding USPS facilities in all major cities, and a
   select number of new offices will be reinforced by constructing a
   smaller office inside a large post office and filling the middle
   portion with cement.

   "I can't wait for one of those punks to take a swing at one of our
   mail centers after that," Potter said.

   According to FBI records, the destruction of the U.S. Postal Service
   was the most significant incident of rampaging teens since the entire
   U.S. Air Force was keyed during the homecoming in 1998.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Plagued by late fees, high interest rates, and
   harassing creditors, the U.S. took out a debt-consolidation loan
   Monday, combining the nation's $6.1 trillion debt into a single, easy
   monthly payment.

   [4]Enlarge Image Debt-Consolidation 

   Bush watches an E-Z Debt commercial on a White House TV.

   "My fellow Americans, we have just taken the first step toward
   regaining control of our finances," said President Bush at a press
   conference. "Thanks to a joint arrangement between the Treasury
   Department, the Federal Reserve, and E-Z Debt Services of Baltimore,
   we are finally on our way to freedom from debt."

   As of press time, the national debt stands at $6,144,393,982,061.52.

   Under the terms of the consolidation, E-Z Debt Services will repay the
   nation's estimated 45,000 creditors, a majority of whom are foreign
   investors, insurance companies, banks, and other privately held
   entities. In return, the U.S will make a single monthly payment of
   $9.26 billion, adjusted for inflation, to E-Z Debt every month for the
   next 70 years.

   "We are proud to enter into this arrangement with the federal
   government," E-Z Debt spokesman Phil Rizzo told reporters. "We know
   how hard it is when you're buried under a mountain of bills with
   seemingly no way to get out. When you don't know where else to turn,
   E-Z Debt is there to help get you back on your feet."

   The government first became aware of E-Z Debt Services on July 10,
   when Sen. Max Baucus (D-MT) happened to see a commercial for the
   company while watching late-night television. Two days later,
   President Bush saw the same ad during a 3 a.m. M*A*S*H rerun.

   According to White House press secretary Ari Fleischer, Bush was
   sitting at his desk clutching a fistful of past-due notices when he
   saw the ad.

   "He was holding all these unpaid bills, and tons more were piled high
   on his desk, including a three-month-old bill from Lockheed-Martin for
   $5.3 billion worth of jet fighters," said Fleischer, who was in the
   Oval Office working late at the time. "He raised the handfuls of bills
   above his head and shouted, 'I can't take it anymore!' That's when the
   ad came on."

   [5]Enlarge Image Debt-Consolidation Jump 

   Bush poses with a Lockheed-Martin X-35A fighter that was saved from
   repossession, thanks to E-Z Debt.

   After extensive meetings between E-Z Debt officials and the Treasury
   Department, an arrangement was reached which provided a manageable
   payment plan--with no threatening phone calls or military invasions
   from creditor nations.

   Though the House Of Representatives swiftly and decisively approved
   the consolidation plan by a vote of 285 to 103, the Senate took longer
   to rally the necessary support, debating the issue for weeks.

   "I was definitely skeptical about E-Z Debt, as were many of my
   colleagues," Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle (D-SD) said. "I'd
   heard horror stories about those debt services. England used one to
   get out of a recession in the late '80s, and they're still paying for
   it."

   "But E-Z Debt is different," Daschle continued. "Jim [Smoller], our
   E-Z Debt representative, sat down with me and the other senators and
   really convinced us that debt consolidation was the way to go. He was
   extremely helpful, taking the time to patiently answer all our
   questions. He even gave us a free quote."

   Opponents of the plan charge that it unnecessarily endangers the
   numerous national assets offered as collateral. Among the valuable
   properties being put up are Yellowstone National Park, NASA, and the
   state of Alaska.

   "Holding the nation hostage to a single creditor is hardly preferable
   to the original situation," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) during a
   lengthy Senate debate on the consolidation. "Besides, I am confident
   that if we just trim a few unnecessary expenses from the budget and
   somehow get a little bigger GNP, we can climb out of this hole without
   help. We just need a little more time."

   "Okay, so we mismanaged our money a little bit--who doesn't every now
   and then?" Sen. Bill Frist (R-TN) said. "But that's no reason to
   resort to using one of those get-out-of-debt-now services."

   Despite such opposition, ultimately, the Senate's pro-consolidation
   voices won out.

   "In the end, everybody came to see that E-Z Debt isn't just another
   loan. It's a way to get out of debt without declaring bankruptcy,"
   Daschle said. "Thanks, E-Z Debt. We couldn't have done it without
   you."


   WASHINGTON, DC--Calling last December's execution of Saddam Hussein
   "anticlimactic," White House officials announced Monday their
   intention to hang the late Iraqi dictator again this year in an
   attempt to garner a more favorable response from the public.
   [4]Enlarge Image U.S. To Re-Hang Saddam Hussein 

   An early sketch of plans for this year's execution event.

   "We're really looking for something that will refocus the American
   people's attention on all the positive aspects of this war," White
   House press secretary Tony Snow said. "We were counting on the death
   of this brutal despot--who, by the way, gassed his own people and was
   just like Hitler--to be a major media event for us. Instead, we wasted
   three or four great news days at a time when we really could have used
   a few high points."

   Most observers considered Hussein's execution, which was carried out
   by Iraq's interim government and broadcast in grainy, amateur footage,
   to be creepy, gruesome, and generally lacking the sense of triumphant
   catharsis authorities had hoped for.

   To remedy the public relations failure, Hussein's body has been dug up
   from its burial place near Tikrit and wired together by U.S. Army
   forensic experts to ensure that it holds its shape during the
   ceremony. The re-hanging, which will be aired on all major networks
   and accompanied by a 30-minute retrospective highlighting the many
   reasons why Hussein was a terrible person deserving of this ignoble
   end, will be "brighter, cheerier, and more upbeat," than the first
   attempt.
     The original hanging

   The original hanging.

   "We're going to have superior production values, inspiring music, and
   live, prime-time coverage straight from Baghdad," said the State
   Department's media coordinator, Ellen Grainer. "[Hussein's body] has
   decomposed so much that his remains will have to be wrapped in canvas
   and covered up, but we plan to display a full-color oversized photo of
   him directly behind the gallows. That should have a real impact on
   viewers. We're pulling out all the stops to make sure we get the
   feel-good media moment everyone's looking for."

   Grainer echoed the sentiments of several Defense Department officials
   who believe the U.S. should never have handed over a high-profile
   hanging to the Iraqi people in the first place. According to Defense
   Secretary Robert Gates, the two biggest miscalculations were allowing
   such a low-quality presentation to be associated with the American
   military, and timing the execution to take place around Christmas.

   "The thinking was that Americans who missed their loved ones overseas
   would appreciate an emotional boost around that time," Gates said.
   "But apparently, people didn't think the holiday season set an
   appropriate mood for a public execution."

   "If we could have hanged Osama bin Laden, that would have been ideal,"
   Gates added. "Obviously, though, you have to catch someone to be able
   to legally murder them, so we're just making the most of what we've
   got."

   It remains to be seen whether public reaction will be more
   enthusiastic this time around.

   "After watching the first hanging, I felt kind of sickened and empty
   inside," Iowa resident Ted Froman, 38, said. "But with all the
   violence that's going on over there at the moment, it would be nice to
   see something done right."

   In the event that the execution fails to create the desired positive
   effect, authorities said they would not rule out hanging Hussein a
   third or even a fourth time, if necessary.


   NEW YORK--An emergency coalition of deities from several major world
   religions is still sorting through the wreckage of a tragic bus
   accident that claimed 67 lives Friday in the culturally diverse
   Jackson Heights neighborhood of Queens.
   [4]Enlarge Image Various Deities 

   Queens residents who, but for the grace of gods, could have been in
   that bus when it crashed.

   According to authorities, at approximately 6:45  p.m. the Q45 bus
   crashed into a power generator at a busy street corner after swerving
   to avoid a slow-moving group of elderly Chinese pedestrians. Police
   say that a Korean laundry, an Irish pub, a Senegalese restaurant, and
   a churro stand were also severely damaged in the resultant smoke and
   flames.

   More than half a dozen gods reportedly responded to the scene within
   moments of the crash. Because the victims hailed from 14 countries and
   professed an as-yet-undetermined number of religious faiths, however,
   the soul-placement process has been laborious, and fewer than a third
   of the deceased have so far been escorted to their appropriate
   afterlives.

   "What a mess this is," said Ganesha, the Hindu lord of success and
   obstacles. "Assuming we ever manage to figure out who worships our
   particular pantheon, there's still the problem of divvying up the
   Buddhists, Jains, and other non-Hindus who worship me, Lakshmi,
   Vishnu, and about 1,000 other gods."

   In the gods' haste to resolve the matter, some of the souls were
   apparently misplaced. In one instance, an adherent of Buddhism  slated
   to be reborn into an Ohio family was temporarily reincarnated as a
   tree sloth. And as of press time, a self-avowed atheist who at the
   last minute took God into his heart has yet to be retrieved from the
   void and placed among the faithful.
     God

   'I don't have the time to hang around here all week like some of the
   niche gods do.'

   God of Abraham
     Ganesha

   'Despite my many arms, cases will have to be handled one at a time to
   avoid mixups.'

   Ganesha

   Many of the gods were struggling just to maintain order.

   "Honestly, who ever heard of a Jew named Shinjoku Murikami?" the
   Shinto sun goddess Amaterasu said. "I had that guy halfway to haunting
   a shrine as a kami spirit before I realized my mistake."

   The religious triage suffered severe setbacks from the beginning
   because many gods serve a relatively low number of devotees and are
   unaccustomed to rapid response.

   "The moment we saw that there was someone named Hawkwind, we knew we'd
   be there for a while," said the Sikh god, Waheguru who explained that,
   due to a verbal agreement struck several millennia ago, no deity is
   allowed to leave until all souls have been claimed. "On top of that,
   it took the Wiccan goddess of the Moon, Earth, and Sea three full days
   to show up."

   One god, who asked that His name not be spoken aloud, said the
   theological muddle was a rarity, and that He and the other deities
   usually have no trouble operating without an official post-disaster
   protocol.

   "We don't normally have to deal with these kinds of details," the god
   said. "If there's a rocket attack in the Middle East, it's pretty easy
   to figure out who goes in to mop up."

   Further complicating matters is the presence of the devil, Beelzebub,
   who has demanded that the coalition relinquish all souls to him.

   "These are all vile, vile sinners, and I'm not leaving until I get
   them," the dark lord said, though other gods appeared unreceptive.
   "Look, my numbers have been way down this month. I'm sure everyone
   here did something damning at some point, right? Come on."

   Several lesser-known gods, such as Jengu, an archaic water deity still
   worshipped by some of the Sawa people in Africa, arrived on the scene
   despite having no devotees among the dead. Jengu said he knew there
   was a "really good Cameroonian place" in the neighborhood and assumed
   that he might be needed.

   "I guess not," the minor god said. "I'll probably hang out anyway,
   though, just in case."

   While the aftermath has been generally chaotic, the most
   inconvenienced deity appeared to be the God of Abraham, who is
   worshipped by billions of Muslims, Jews, and Christians.

   "Ideally, I'd just take all of them in one pile, but there are about a
   thousand little sects and denominations and all that nonsense that I
   have to act like I care about," God/Yahweh/Allah said. "Did you know
   there was a guy who practiced Santeria on that bus? Christ, what a
   nightmare."

   The deities were all unanimous in agreeing that the sole Catholic
   fatality should be condemned to forever roam the Earth as an
   anguished, wretched ghost, as Catholicism is the only truly false
   religion and has no god to accept its faithful when they die.


   2006 was the year Vice President Dick Cheney broke from his
   traditionally parsimonious relationship with the news media, and
   rewarded journalists and commentators with an extremely provocative
   news item involving the near-point-blank shooting of 78-year-old
   friend and campaign contributor Harry Whittington on a Texas ranch.
   [4]Enlarge Image Vice President R 

   Spraying my elderly hunting companion in the face with birdshot was
   the least I could do for the press corps I love.

   Vice President Dick Cheney

   When the vice president addressed the media two days after the
   incident, many of those in the press corps were moved to tears.

   "Christmas has come early this year," Cheney quipped to the
   appreciative crowd of reporters in the White House press briefing
   room. "But in all seriousness, you truly deserve this gift, which I
   happily bestow on you in great thanks and humble appreciation for all
   you've done these past five years. May you make the most of it."

   "Considering all the trouble you go through to cover the White House,
   spraying my elderly hunting companion in the face with birdshot was
   the least I could do," he said.

   "I love you all," he added.

   Cheney said the "token of [his] affection" was intended not only for
   reporters, but for anyone in any media-related position. "Late-night
   talk-show hosts, pundits, parody songwriters, and even bloggers--from
   the bottom of my heart, I want you all to have this."
     Vice President Whittington

   Cheney urged the recipients to exploit the way he seemingly acted out
   of sheer malice and callous indifference in his handling of the
   incident, inviting them to make jokes inspired by, but not limited to,
   his authoritarian persona, his pro-gun position, and the bumbling
   cartoon hunter Elmer Fudd.

   "I can't remember the last time a high-level administration official
   has taken the time to do something so wonderful just for us," NBC
   Chief White House Correspondent David Gregory said shortly after
   Cheney's announcement. "Mr. Vice President, we salute you."

   The incident quickly garnered worldwide attention and deep media
   gratitude.

   "I could have kissed him," The Washington Post's Richard Cohen said.
   "And when it came out that his favorite hobby is slaughtering dozens
   of defenseless pheasants who have no chance to escape from the
   confines of the hunting ranch, that was the icing on the cake."

   Cohen added, "I doubt we'll ever see a vice president as kindhearted
   and generous as this one."


   EVERETT, WA--After re-watching the last six episodes of the show's
   first season Tuesday night, local resident Sam Krewalski, a
   29-year-old data-entry clerk and avid Lost fan, mentioned yet again
   that the diverse cast of characters featured in the hit ABC drama
   "totally reminds [him]" of his circle of eight friends.
   [4]Enlarge Image Area Man 

   Though Krewalski does not have any black friends, he would want them
   to be like Mr. Eko rather than Michael.

   "Dave [Engler] is definitely Jack," said Krewalski, comparing the
   31-year-old line cook whom he has known since college to the selfless
   doctor and leader of the survivors. "Always has a plan. Always making
   the tough decisions. Just last week, none of us could decide where we
   wanted to eat, when Dave all of a sudden steps in and says Outback
   Steakhouse, and boom, it was like the scene where they all follow Jack
   to the caves."

   "And Dave also has this thing where he always has to 'fix things,'"
   Krewalski continued, referring to Jack's main character flaw. "Like
   that time he broke my cupboard door and, even though I told him it was
   fine, he insisted on screwing my cupboard door back on. I was like,
   'Okay, Jack.' He seriously needs to learn to let go sometimes."

   According to Krewalski, his friend Katie Peters is "the Kate of the
   group," not only because both she and the TV character share the same
   first name and are attractive, but also because Katie, like Kate, is
   adventurous.

   "Last month, a bunch of us were going to the batting cages, and she
   was like, 'I'm coming, too,'" Krewalski said. "I had to laugh. Katie,
   always trying to be one of the guys."

   "I guess my other friend Katie, Katie O'Malley, is also a little bit
   like Kate," he added. "But she's also like Sun, too. Yeah, she's Sun."

   Krewalski claims that he himself is a mixture of John Locke and
   Desmond, pointing out that he "truly identifies with" both of their
   struggles, and that he can be designated as two separate characters
   because "no one else [he knows] is like them, so it's okay."
   [5]Enlarge Image Area Man Lost Chart 

Coincidence?

   Just some of the eerie similarities

   "Desmond had to push a button every 108 minutes for three years in
   order to save the world," Krewalski said, noting that he also has a
   beard like Desmond's. "At my job, I sit around, mindlessly entering
   numbers into a computer all day, too. All for the greater good. In
   fact, some mornings on my way to work, I jokingly say to myself, 'Off
   to go push the button.' Or sometimes, 'Off to go save the world.'"

   In addition, Krewalski said he is "pretty much" like John Locke,
   despite never having had his kidney stolen by his con-man father, nor
   having been pushed from a 10-story building, becoming paralyzed from
   the waist down, and suddenly regaining the ability to walk in an
   unexplained miracle.

   "I'm the provider," he said, likening his role among his friends to
   that of the island's hunter and tracker. "Last Super Bowl, I made
   quesadillas for everyone, and it was totally like Locke coming back
   with the boar, me marching in with all that food. My friends didn't
   think I could cook. It was definitely a 'Don't tell me what I can't
   do!' moment."

   "Also, I have a really good sense of direction," Krewalski added. "And
   faith. I have faith like John Locke, too. John Locke is awesome."

   Krewalski explained that some of the correlations between the show's
   characters and his friends were not immediately obvious, and certain
   acquaintances only revealed which characters they truly represented
   through interactions with already classified friends.

   "I struggled to peg [Steve] Wang for the longest time, but when I saw
   how he acted around Katie, or Kate, it suddenly dawned on me: He's
   Sawyer," Krewalski said. "That made me realize how Wang is always
   coming up with these funny nicknames for everyone, like Sawyer does.
   I'm 'Sam-O' and he calls Tom [White] 'Whitey.'"

   "Tom's like Hurley because he's fat," Krewalski added.

   Other designations Krewalski has made in recent months include: Greg
   is Sayid, Froberg is Jin, Pete is Boone, Krewalski himself is also
   Sayid, Joe is Ben, and Joe's dog Rufus is Vincent. He also has a group
   of acquaintances that he has dubbed his "tail section of friends," or
   "Tailies," for short. Among them, Robert is Bernard, Anne is Claire
   and Rose and Ana-Lucia and Libby and Rousseau, and Gabe is Shannon,
   because according to Krewalski, even though they are different
   genders, "they're both annoying." Krewalski also claims his friend
   Chris is "exactly like" Charlie, as both have struggled with a heroin
   addiction.

   Last week, in what Krewalski called "an interesting twist" to his
   circle of friends, Dave invited some of his coworkers from the
   restaurant to come along for drinks with everyone. Krewalski has begun
   to refer to this group of people as "the Others."

   "There was definitely a lot of mystery surrounding them at first,
   because we all went out to their favorite bar, and we were on their
   turf," Krewalski said. "But something tells me they could turn out to
   be good guys."

   "Then again, they might just be assholes," Krewalski added.


   PONCA CITY, OK--Weird Ponca City High School freshman Sam Hollis, 14,
   briefly transcended his lifelong streak of social awkwardness
   Wednesday, surprising his classmates and teacher when he deftly
   dissected a frog during his second-period biology lab.

   Displaying a never-before-witnessed confidence and poise, Hollis
   effortlessly handled a surgical scalpel and a pair of forceps. After
   making a clean lengthwise incision in the preserved frog's abdomen, he
   used the forceps to skillfully pull aside the layers of skin and
   muscle.
   [4]Enlarge Image Weird Kid 

   Sam Hollis, who is small for his age, takes a moment to reflect on the
   only instance of easy social interaction in his 14 years of life.

   Hollis reportedly completed the opening of the body cavity in less
   than one minute, which drew the attention of nearby pairs of students
   still arguing over who would have to touch their frog and gagging from
   the stench of formaldehyde.

   "At first I thought he was going to be all weird and start to cry or
   something," said Hollis' assigned lab partner Ricky Malnight, who
   before knew Hollis only as "that dork who never talks and has
   dandruff." "But he just picked up the scalpel and dove right in. He
   didn't even look at the workbook or anything. It was pretty awesome
   because all I had to do was sit there while he did everything."

   Hollis appeared so in his element, Malnight said, that for the rest of
   the class period he almost forgot the scrawny teen's faintly musty
   odor, perennially crooked glasses, and widely agreed-upon "gross"
   status.

   As students craned their necks to watch him assuredly navigate the
   frog's abdominal cavity, Hollis capitalized on his fleeting peer
   acceptance by identifying the functions of all seven major organs. He
   even showed his classmates how to cut out the gall bladder without
   damaging the liver, a skill which earned many extra credit on the
   project.
     Natalie Kranz

"Steve [Sam] was a big help."

   Natalie Kranz
   President, Student Council

   Hollis also blazed a trail in stomach cutting, the most dreaded part
   of the project, in which students examined the semi- digested remains
   of the euthanized frogs' last meals.

   "That weird science kid totally knew what he was doing," fellow
   biology student Mike Warner said. "He's still a loser, but it was
   pretty cool when he showed us where the frog's balls were."

   Added Warner: "Courtney Olsen screamed like crazy when I pretended to
   throw mine at her."

   By the end of class, the weird teen had managed to speak to six
   different classmates for a combined 17 minutes of flop sweat-free
   conversation.

   "My mom's French, so I've actually eaten frog legs before," Hollis
   said. Miraculously, his comment failed to gross out or otherwise repel
   the majority of students.

   Hollis then began moving the dissected frog's mouth, making the
   lifeless creature plead not to be eaten, which earned Hollis a few
   halfhearted chuckles from nearby classmates for the first time in his
   life.

   Perhaps the most surprising event came when student council president
   Natalie Kranz asked Hollis where the elusive spleen was located. The
   resulting 30-second exchange with the most popular girl in school
   marked the longest period of communication with a female peer in
   Hollis' life, as well as the only known occurrence of direct eye
   contact.

   "Yeah, Steve [Sam] was a big help," Kranz said regarding the event
   Hollis will replay over and over in his mind for the next several
   years. "I really need good grades in this class or my parents aren't
   going to let me go to prom with Josh [Mueller]."

   According to those who have sort of known Hollis since elementary
   school, the classroom dissection was by far his most successful foray
   into normal social interactions. Past failed attempts include breaking
   his collarbone in third grade during a game of tag, and a poorly
   attended Battlestar Galactica-themed birthday party.

   Hollis, however, seemed optimistic about the possibilities of entering
   a new phase in his social life.

   "I really wish we were working on fetal pigs," said Hollis after
   turning in his tray and scalpel and offering to stay after class to
   gather and dispose of the gutted frogs. "It would be really
   interesting to cut open one of their hearts, because they're pretty
   similar to the human heart in a lot of ways."

   "[Hollis] said that?" Malnight asked upon hearing of his lab partner's
   continued interest in animal dissection. "What a fucking freak."

   Joe Torre

   NEW YORK--Saying the American League wild-card bid is "beneath the
   dignity of the Yankees organization" and "an affront to everything
   [we] stand for," New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner and
   manager Joe Torre told reporters during a press conference Wednesday
   that the Yankees have respectfully declined the opportunity to
   participate in Major League Baseball's postseason if they have to do
   so as the American League's wild-card team.

   "On behalf of the entire Yankee team: Thanks, but no thanks," said
   Steinbrenner, adding that the Yankees would only play in the 2007
   playoffs if they were able to take their "rightful place" as the
   American League East representatives. "Please don't patronize us with
   by making us the wild card. The New York Yankees aren't wild cards.
   We're the New York Yankees, for God's sake. The New York Yankees. And
   we have our dignity."

   "Wild card?" Steinbrenner added. "Please."

   The announcement came following a three-hour meeting between
   Steinbrenner, Torre, and baseball Commissioner Bud Selig, in which
   both Torre and Steinbrenner attempted to convince the commissioner
   that the Yankees were anything but wild cards--a position Steinbrenner
   later called "demeaning and pathetic."

   "We're not an unproven, intermediate expansion team whose qualities
   are unknown and whose team character has not been established," said
   Steinbrenner, referring to the strict definition of a wild card. "The
   wild card is for those lesser organizations, teams like the Colorado
   Rockies, or--ugh, I can't believe I am actually going to utter their
   name--the 'Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim.'" 

   "You have to consider the elite pedigree of this historic franchise,"
   Torre added. "The Yankees have won 26 World Series titles and 39
   American League pennants. To even think we would reduce ourselves to
   such an embarrassing position is an absurdity bordering on insanity.
   We might as well drop down to Single A."

   The Yankees, who finished the season with a 94-68 record, leaving them
   two games behind the Boston Red Sox in the AL East standings, are in
   fact statistically the American League wild-card team. Torre
   maintained, however, that the Yankees are above statistics, and answer
   to a "much higher calling."

   "We have family, friends, and billions upon billions of fans who
   deserve much more than for us to just submit to being spat upon,"
   Torre said. "The fact that we have, in the past, even participated in
   divisional series and league championship series is beneath us. I've
   been saying for some time that the Yankees should only have to play in
   one game the entire year: an intrasquad match to decide the world
   champion."

   Though the Yankees did accept wild-card births in both the 1995 and
   1997 seasons, Steinbrenner said he was not made aware of it at the
   time. Had he been, the Yankees' controversial, often polarizing owner
   stated, he would have most assuredly pulled his team out of the
   playoffs to show respect for Yankee greats such as Babe Ruth, Lou
   Gehrig, Joe DiMaggio, and Mickey Mantle--none of whom, Steinbrenner
   said, ever donned the pinstripes as a wild-card team.

   The wild-card system was introduced by Commissioner Selig in 1995.

   "I'm not even sure how this, what do you call it, 'wild card?'
   Right...how this wild card even works," said Yankees shortstop and
   team captain Derek Jeter, who made "air quotes" gestures every time he
   uttered the phrase. "Can a team even make it to the World Series from
   such a position? Seems like charity to me. And the Yankees are
   nobody's charity case."

   "Try to remember that the Yankees are blessed by God himself," Jeter
   added. "If God wanted us to be a wild-card team, He would have done so
   when He created the Yankees over 100 years ago." 

   When informed three of the last five World Series titles were, in
   fact, won by wild-card teams, catcher Jorge Posada stated that it was
   because other Major-League clubs acted out of the weakness of false
   sentiment, having felt sorry for "those lesser teams' lowly,
   disgusting, and frankly wretched position."

   "How do you think Florida beat us in 2003?" Posada said. "Because the
   Yankees are too classy a ball club to beat up on a clearly inferior
   team."

   Though the majority of the Yankee team affirmed their commitment to
   boycotting the playoffs if their wild-card status is not "corrected,"
   third baseman Alex Rodriguez stated he would still play, adding that
   with so many Yankees out of the lineup he would get more at-bats, more
   balls hit to him in the field, and would finally get a chance to
   pitch, a position Rodriguez said he is "probably pretty good at."


   SAN BRUNO, CA--In an effort to connect with younger voters and tap
   into the immense popularity of the video-sharing website, Democrat and
   Republican candidates participated in the first-ever presidential
   debates shown on YouTube to at least 11 viewers.
   [4]Enlarge Image Youtube Debate 

   An estimated 50 percent of the video's viewers clicked on the link by
   accident.

   The video debates--which received one comment, two stars, and was
   favorited by no one--featured candidates answering a variety of
   viewer-generated questions ranging from health care to the Iraq war,
   and racked up 4,881,990 fewer views than a 56-second video of a sleepy
   cat posted the same day.

   "Don't tase me, bro!" an unnamed University of Florida student said in
   a video that captured the attention of college-age men and women
   across the country. "Oww! Oww! Oww!"

   Despite being highlighted on YouTube's main page for the three weeks
   preceding and following each debate, the two videos remain among the
   site's least watched, receiving five fewer views than an identical
   debate video that was sped up and set to the popular novelty song
   "Yakety Sax." Nevertheless, 2008 Democratic candidate John Edwards
   reportedly called the debates a "success for modern elections" in an
   e-mail to CollegeHumor.com, urging the popular comedy outlet to please
   post the video somewhere, anywhere on its website.

   Although Republican frontrunner Rudolph Giuliani touted his ability to
   bring in literally hundreds of new viewers to November's GOP debate,
   the Federal Election Commission ruled that his campaign misled voters
   and broke federal law when it tagged the video as "Lindsay Lohan
   Britney Spears VMAs Boobs The Notebook Kiss Scene Juggling Letterman
   Spiderman." The FEC also discounted several accidental views resulting
   from searches for "Hilary Duff," "Dennis the Menace," and "Daily Show
   Republican Debate."

   While official YouTube estimates put the debates' total number of hits
   at just under a dozen, some candidates claimed the statistics had been
   miscalculated and should be rounded up to 13 to include the time
   Democratic candidate Joe Biden was unable to view the video because
   his dial-up Internet connection was too slow.

   Leaders from both parties said they were already looking forward to
   holding similar debates in 2008, and that the next round will feature
   expanded interactive features for YouTube members, more candid
   discussions between candidates, and a surprise ending involving Mentos
   and Diet Coke.


   BOSTON--According to a report released Monday by Boston University's
   School of Lifestyle Management, more than 180 trillion leisure hours
   were lost to work in 2004.

   [4]Enlarge Image 180 Trillion Leisure Hours Lost To Work In 2004 

   A Detroit resident spends valuable leisure hours at an auto plant.

   "The majority of American adults find work cutting into the middle of
   their days--exactly when leisure is most effective," said Adam
   Bernhardt, the Boston University sociology professor who headed the
   study. "The hours between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. are ideally suited to
   browsing stores, dozing in front of the television, and finishing the
   morning paper. Daytime hours are also the warmest and sunniest of the
   day, making them perfect for outdoor activities. Unfortunately, most
   Americans can't enjoy leisure during this time, for the simple reason
   that they're 'at work.'"

   In addition to surveying 12,000 citizens nationwide, researchers
   studied data from seven different government agencies.

   Deborah Kletter, an expert in the field of rest and relaxation,
   emphasized the pervasive nature of the problem, which she said affects
   96 percent of employable Americans year-round.

   "Week after week of potential relaxation time is squandered to jobs,
   with millions of would-be leisurers prohibited from sleeping in,
   working on hobbies, or taking trips," said Kletter, executive director
   of the Five-To-Nine Foundation. "An average employed person's ability
   to stroll aimlessly around his town and 'do whatever' is basically
   nonexistent 49 weeks out of the year."

   Kletter said there is a vast disparity between the U.S. and Europe,
   where a strong leisure ethic is taught during youth.

   "Americans simply can't keep up with the European leisure force,"
   Kletter said. "In such fields as suntanning, skiing, and cooking
   elaborate meals that can be eaten over the course of an entire
   evening, Europe has us beat."

   The report's internals reveal that full-time workers are hit hardest,
   with part-time workers coming in a close second, and freelancers
   marking a distant third.

   [5]Enlarge Image 180 Trillion Leisure Hours Lost To Work In 2004 jump 

   A group of friends enjoy some rare leisure hours in Sunnyvale, CA.

   "Ironically, the unemployed fared the best in this report," Kletter
   said. "One of the questions that remains unanswered, unfortunately, is
   how jobless citizens' high number of available leisure hours somehow
   fails to translate into overall happiness."

   Bernhardt and Kletter found that employed persons do find one small
   but regular opportunity for leisure.

   "In general, Saturdays and Sundays were unaffected by work," Kletter
   said. "Unfortunately, this fact does little more than underscore the
   fact that a serious problem exists five out of seven days of the
   week."

   The loss of leisure-related revenue is another factor to consider,
   Kletter said.

   "Leisure-time reduction is costing America billions of dollars in
   weekday concert-ticket revenue, airfare, and violin lessons," Kletter
   said. "I don't understand why the government hasn't already stepped
   in."

   Kletter said that, "on the bright side," many Americans have learned
   to reclaim leisure time through aggressive multi-tasking.

   "Americans have an impressive ability to do several things at once,"
   said Kletter, who compiled the at-office leisure figures.
   "Enterprising workers managed to shop online, have long-distance
   telephone conversations with friends, and stare at their cubicle walls
   for hours. Those findings are very encouraging."

   Bernhardt and Kletter acknowledged that their report was responsible
   for the loss of nearly 2,000 leisure hours.


   KIRKSVILLE, MO--Jon Strauss, 22, a Kirksville video-store manager,
   announced Monday that he supports U.S. troops "100 percent"--with the
   exception of the ones with whom he went to high school.

   [4]Enlarge Image Area Man Supports 

   Strauss, who said he backs "99.9 percent" of America's troops.

   "My heart goes out to the troops, and I pray for their safe return,"
   said Strauss, a 1998 graduate of Kirksville High School. "Except for
   that dick Andy Tischler. I hope the Iraqis capture him and torture his
   wedgie-inflicting ass."

   Though he expressed mixed feelings about the war against Iraq, Strauss
   said he feels it is vital for Americans to stand united behind the
   nation's fighting men and women in uniform. He draws the line,
   however, at his former classmates.

   "Troy Nowicki, this guy who was in my junior-year gym class, is in the
   Navy now," Strauss said. "He was on the football team, and he used to
   love to tease me and give me purple nurples and generally make my life
   miserable. Once, he head-butted me so hard, I couldn't hear for an
   hour. Fucking asshole. Yeah, I'm really praying for his safe return."

   Strauss has tied a yellow ribbon around a tree in front of his
   parents' home, where he is temporarily living, to show his support for
   the troops. He also sports an American-flag pin on his shirt at work.

   "We can't let our soldiers feel like they're also facing an enemy on
   the homefront," Strauss said. "They have enough to worry about without
   hearing that their own country isn't behind them. Could you imagine
   how demoralizing that would be? It would be as traumatic as the time I
   had to give a speech on the Teapot Dome scandal at a school assembly,
   and Ricky Dorner kept whipping pennies at me the whole time. Ricky's a
   Marine now, and I heard his division got deployed to Tikrit, where
   they came under heavy fire from the Republican Guard. Haven't heard a
   casualty report yet."

   [5]Enlarge Image Area Man Supports Jump 

   A 1997 photo of U.S. Marine Ricky Dorner, whom Strauss called "a
   world-class asshole."

   Strauss, like many Americans, said he believes the U.S. has learned
   its lesson from its poor treatment of Vietnam War soldiers. Today,
   even the staunchest anti-war activist is likely to agree that the
   soldiers are only carrying out the will of the policy-makers and
   deserve the nation's sympathy and good wishes.

   "For a lot of young people, the military is the only option," Strauss
   said. "Like Frank Deroia, this burnout who used to sit at the back of
   the school bus and loudly make fun of my clothes every day. Well, he
   joined the Army, and now I guess he's being treated like some kind of
   hero because he was one of the troops who secured Baghdad
   International Airport. Meanwhile, I've got a bachelor's degree and I'm
   stuck in Kirksville working at Blockbuster. How is that fair?"

   Strauss' friends say they are well aware of his feelings about
   America's troops.

   "Jon was very moved by the horrible POW ordeal of Pfc. Jessica Lynch,"
   longtime friend Will Arbus said. "He said she seems like a really
   sweet girl, the kind of person who would treat classmates with
   kindness and respect. Nothing like Lance Corporal Craig Veryzer of the
   103rd Infantry. Apparently, Craig was fond of ridiculing Jon's
   less-than-perfect skin. Boy, does Jon hate that prick."


   MIDDLEBURY, VT--"Life begins at 90." So goes the motto of spunky area
   senior Archibald Munson, 91 years young and still as active as ever.
   While others may imagine retired life to be dull, this resident of the
   Middlebury Home For The Aged stays active and vital with his favorite
   hobby-filling his trousers with his own bowel movements up to 40 hours
   a week!

   [4]Enlarge Image Area Senior Stays Active 

   Archibald Munson

   State-regulated dietary requirements guarantee that Munson gets three
   high-roughage meals a day, keeping him regular and ensuring the hefty,
   high-volume defecations that keep him on top of his game. While
   nursing-home staffers say that trouser-filling among 90-year-olds is
   common, Munson continually impresses, rising above the crowd with the
   most voluminously packed trousers on the ward.

   Yes, while many seniors fill their pants on occasion, Munson is
   clearly the champ. Moving his bowels with incredible regularity allows
   this sporty old-timer to stay in tip-top shape, a lesson we could all
   afford to learn.

   "He's not very lucid, as over the years Alzheimer's has caused most of
   the higher functions of his brain to erode," said Dr. Frank Gehry, who
   checks in on Munson once a week. "Yet, despite his dim awareness of
   his surroundings and identity, Archie's fighting spirit remains strong
   as a bull. He is blessed with incredible will power, which continually
   pushes him to keep filling his pants more voluminously and frequently
   than before."

   With a reputation like that, Munson has more than earned the respect
   of those around him. "Arch maintains a strict program of 10 to 20
   trouser-fillings each morning, afternoon and evening, as well as at
   least one or two bedsheet changes during the night while he sleeps,"
   said nursing assistant Gwen Travis, Munson's state-appointed
   caregiver. "He's a real trooper, the way he just keeps filling and
   filling his pants without ever tiring, day after day."

   And it's not just his trousers he fills, either. According to
   nursing-home staffers, Munson's Texas-sized loads have also been found
   in some of the darnedest spots: the laundry-room dryer, pillowcases, a
   big box of rubber gloves nurses use when cleaning up urine. Even in
   other residents' shoes!

   And when he's finished unloading, Munson still remains plenty active,
   fighting and struggling with nursing-home personnel as they attempt to
   remove his clothes and clean him up. In one instance, he even bit
   through an orderly's skin.

   "He's really proud of his achievements," Travis said. She then smiled,
   adding, "Sometimes, he tenaciously clings to the accumulated fecal
   matter, like he doesn't want us to take it away!"

   Through sheer perseverance, Munson has increased fecal volume per
   evacuation by more than 60 percent since 1995. What's more, he now
   defecates up to six cubic inches at a time, a figure that has stunned
   medical experts and nursing-home officials alike.

   Never content to rest on his laurels, Munson continually strives to
   reach ever-greater defecatory heights. Pacing himself against other
   retirees during walks at the local shopping mall, Munson can fill his
   trousers up to eight times during a single two-hour walk, beating out
   other mall-walking seniors by a wide margin.

   With all his achievements, it's not surprising that Munson has become
   a true celebrity in Middlebury. In the whole town, there's not a
   single resident who doesn't recognize his trademark lumpy trousers or
   his well-known training slogan of, "Where the hell's my goddamned
   wife, you bastards!"--a fond tribute to his wife Edna, who died in
   1978.

   Not that trouser-soiling is Munson's only interest. Far from it! His
   favorite TV show is Rat Patrol, and staffers can always tell how much
   he enjoys it by the way he hurls large wads of his feces at the
   rec-room television set whenever the show is on.

   As if all that weren't enough, he also loves working with kids. He
   once wowed a fourth-grade class of Christmas carolers by expelling an
   entire pound of excrement in excitement. Now that's the Christmas
   spirit! Archibald Munson: We salute you!


   ROCKLAND, DE--Local resident Heather Telford's entire Friday was
   ruined by a set of uncooperative bangs that refused to set correctly,
   the 26-year-old benefits coordinator told reporters.
   [4]Enlarge Image Area Woman 

   "Why me? Why today?" Telford asked.

   According to Telford, the trouble began "right away" as she got ready
   for work, when she discovered that the three inches of
   forehead-skirting hair was unable to sit flat, despite the application
   of numerous gels, sprays, and pomades. A tuft on either side would not
   integrate with the central grouping, leaving three-quarter-inch gaps,
   while other wispy strands strayed from her temples, creating a highly
   undesirable "wing" effect. A last-ditch effort to wet and restyle the
   bangs only worsened their state, adding several more small kinks and
   increasing their overall dishevelment.

   "It was so awful," Telford said. "I should've just called in sick
   after I found out that my straightening iron was broken, because the
   whole day went downhill from there. I can't imagine a worse thing
   happening to me."

   The bangs went on to adversely affect every element of Telford's day,
   including her commute, her interactions with coworkers, the way food
   tasted, and even the sound of her voice.

   "I kept feeling these awful little wayward pieces brushing against my
   face, and I couldn't think about anything else," Telford said. "I
   could just sense people's eyes burning holes into my forehead as I
   passed by the water cooler. I can't blame them. I looked like a
   complete freak."
     Area Woman Timeline

   Telford spent most of her hour-long lunch break locked in her office,
   trying unsuccessfully to pin back the bangs with a barrette she found
   in her desk drawer.

   In the early afternoon, she was forced to present a new
   employee-wellness initiative at a meeting with company executives that
   she was unable to cancel.

   Telford said her bosses were polite throughout her presentation, but
   were also "clearly trying not to burst out laughing" at her bangs.

   "I'm not surprised they passed on the proposal--I just can't believe
   they didn't fire me on the spot," said Telford, who delivered her
   entire presentation while compulsively smoothing down the left portion
   of her bangs.

   "How could they take me seriously with the state my hair was in?"
   Telford said. "Months of work down the drain all because my stupid,
   stupid bangs are so stupid."

   The bangs, which Telford acquired five years ago in an attempt to
   frame her face and convince her ex-boyfriend he had made a big mistake
   by leaving her, have ruined an estimated 47 workdays, three vacations,
   and countless photos.

   Blaming her errant bangs on a combination of genetics and routinely
   "sleeping on them funny," Telford said that their fine, flyaway nature
   and penchant for being either too long or too short exceed even the
   two-inch-wide port-wine birthmark on her hip as her most bothersome
   physical shortcoming.

   "I'm about this close to cutting the damn things off myself, I swear
   to God," Telford said.

   Though she has considered transitioning to a less stressful hairstyle,
   she said the process of growing the bangs out would be "10,000 times
   worse."

   "I'd have to go through this awful period where they'd be at this odd,
   floppy length, and it would just suck," Telford said. "So I can either
   grow them out and look like a Yorkshire terrier, or keep them short
   and look like a mental patient. Those are my basic hair options right
   now."

   Following a "humiliating" but unavoidable visit to the supermarket,
   Telford's plans to return home, shower, and go to bed were foiled by a
   surprise birthday party organized by her roommates in her honor. The
   party, attended by Telford's close friends, parents, and people not
   seen since high school, included presents, lots of champagne drinking,
   and photos, and was the absolute worst conceivable thing that could
   have ever happened to her.


   NEW YORK--Even in the air-conditioned confines of New York's John F.
   Kennedy Airport back on June 14, Abu Basir Yousef was sweating.
   [4]Enlarge Image Yousef 

   Terrorist Yousef waits in vain for his dirty bomb.

   His sole piece of luggage--a black duffel bag--was lost upon his
   arrival in New York.

   Despite hours of waiting, and several U.S. Airways check-in counter
   workers and Transportation Security Administration screeners joining
   in the search, the Yemen-born 32-year-old had yet to hear any positive
   updates. Finally, a baggage claim representative approached him.

   "Afraid I've got some bad news," the worker said to Yousef.

   Airline personnel had searched the plane, the tarmac, and the gate,
   but were still unable to locate his bag containing his homemade dirty
   bomb.

   "My trip was ruined," Yousef said. "But Allah will right this wrong."

   Most Americans have grown accustomed to inconvenience in the name of
   security, be it color-coded anxieties or metal detectors at public
   libraries. But al-Qaeda member Yousef lived a nightmare scenario that
   would cause even the most frequent of flyers to shudder.

   After a cramped, twice-delayed U.S. Airways flight that he said would
   be "the last of my life," Yousef sat and stared for hours at an empty,
   rotating baggage carousel at JFK, searching in vain for his expensive
   and fragile cargo, unaware that it was currently being routed and
   re-routed around the country.

   Over the next three days, it would arrive at virtually every major
   domestic destination--except for its intended one, New York--and
   eventually wind up among the Father's Day gifts and matching bags in
   Lambert-St. Louis International Airport.

   According to U.S. Airways, the luggage lingered in St. Louis after an
   unscheduled side trip to Dallas, a short stint in Charlotte, NC and
   even a surprise UPS delivery to a suburban home in Michigan.

   When informed that somebody had mistakenly taken his luggage home,
   opened it, and called the airline, who returned it--two days later--to
   Detroit's Metro Airport, Yousef could only shake his head.

   "The U.S. truly is the Great Satan," he said.

   His case is but one among thousands. In a busy summer season with
   multiple new security regulations, baggage blunders like this leave
   travelers like Yousef with no choice but to shrug and laugh at their
   all-too-common horror stories.

   But the sheer number of unintentional side-trips taken by this
   particular radioactive weapon forced U.S. Airways' Vice President For
   Consumer Affairs Bryce Fox to admit that "baggage mishandling history"
   may have been made.

   "We sincerely apologize to Mr. Yousef for sending his explosive device
   to St. Louis--eventually," Fox said, chuckling. "Had we paid a little
   more attention, we would have definitely known St. Louis was not this
   bomb's final destination. At least we can say that it was not damaged,
   or really even touched, by TSA staff."

   By the 22nd, over a week since Yousef discovered his bomb was missing,
   the duffel bag finally reached JFK. Yet even an attempt to contact him
   at his Bronx home about its arrival proved a comedy of errors. A
   mispronunciation of Yousef's name in the baggage claim office resulted
   in the bag being returned to another traveler in the airport that
   day--air marshal Abe Joseph.

   "I took one look inside and realized that somebody was probably pretty
   upset to be missing such a complicated piece of equipment," Joseph
   said. "I brought it to security, and they held me up for more than an
   hour with the thing, and when they finally passed it through, what did
   they do? They dropped it. Twice."

   Added Joseph: "Welcome to New York."

   It's hard to believe that one innocent-looking, dirty-bomb-holding
   black duffel bag could wreak so much havoc, an irony not lost on
   Yousef. "These infidels must die," he said.

   U.S. Airways spokeswoman Deborah Shier once again apologized to Yousef
   and said that the airline had returned his bag via private courier
   back to his Bronx apartment on Thursday. "We sincerely appreciate his
   business, and hope he will consider U.S. Airways for future flights,"
   Shier said. "I can assure him those flights will most likely go a lot
   smoother."

   Yousef may have his luggage back safe, but nevertheless refuses to do
   business again with U.S. Airways, saying that he has "another
   important mission" to attend to on the West Coast--one where his bomb
   will, no doubt, be better treated.


   SAN FRANCISCO--Although Barry Bonds remains the target of criticism
   over his possible--some say almost certain--use of
   performance-enhancing substances, the fact that Bonds has not been
   implicated in dogfighting, nightclub shootings, gambling, or murdering
   his family has transformed his controversial pursuit of the all-time
   home-run record into the feel-good sports story of the summer.
   [4]Enlarge Image Bonds 

   "Until we have definitive proof one way or the other, the very
   presence of so many questions about Bonds and steroids will haunt his
   achievements forever," ESPN's Peter Gammons said Monday. "However, at
   this moment, I think we'd all have to agree that having a raging
   juiced-up misanthrope break the greatest record in sports is a ray of
   sunshine compared to everything else on the sports page."

   "What kind of person electrocutes dogs, let alone fights them?"
   Gammons added. "I simply can't comprehend it. Go, Barry!"

   While Bonds has been routinely greeted with booing and jeering
   whenever he played outside of San Francisco, the taunting seems to
   have abated for the moment as sports fans across America lapse into a
   reflective silence as Bonds approaches the plate.

   "I know Bonds is probably 100% pharmaceutical Frankenstein," said
   Brewers fan Charles Michaels, who waved a banner reading "Make Us
   Relatively Proud, Barry" while not exactly rooting against Bonds at
   Milwaukee's Miller Park Sunday night. "But I also know for a certainty
   that gambling problems didn't compel him to affect the outcome of the
   NBA playoffs. You have to give him that much."

   "Bonds is not exactly my hero," said Braves fan Bradley Hanson, who
   flew to San Francisco for Monday night's Braves game in order to
   pointedly not boo Bonds. "But he's a reminder that in these troubled
   times for sports, there are still players whose crimes are simple,
   pure, and only tarnish our beloved sport and everything it stands for
   without killing anybody."

   Bonds defiantly refuses to acknowledge, much less answer, any of the
   dozens of questions regarding his use of illegal substances, often
   lashing out at clubhouse reporters asking even innocuous
   baseball-related questions. Yet as of press time, Bonds had not yet
   been involved in even one single murder.

   "Say what you want about Bonds, but he's not a murderer, or even an
   attempted murderer," San Francisco Chronicle reporter and co-author of
   Game Of Shadows Lance Williams wrote in Sunday's edition. "The only
   thing I believe Bonds did was inject himself with Winstrol,
   Deca-Durabolin, insulin, testosterone, synthetic testosterone,
   testosterone decanoate, human growth hormones, Norbolethone,
   Trenbolone, Clomid, and possibly commercial racehorse laxatives, all
   in order to make himself a better athlete. Not to allow himself to
   gut-shoot a gentleman's club bouncer, but to become a better athlete.
   A better athlete...it doesn't seem so bad when you think about it like
   that."

   "It's a relief of sorts to see someone putting performance first,"
   Frank Deford said in a New York Times Magazine editorial Sunday. "I
   think we all believe that Barry has taken steroids, and that they made
   him into a hulking monster who rewrote the record books. But they
   didn't turn him into a hulking monster who drugged his wife and
   children into unconsciousness before strangling them to death and
   hanging himself from a weight bench. And in these troubled times,
   Bonds' performance is one we can all reluctantly applaud."


   COLUMBUS, OH--In an announcement that received wide attention
   throughout Wolverine's tavern Tuesday, bar skanks Stephanie Fletcher
   and Jessica Keneally stated that they would share a passionate kiss at
   an unspecified time that evening.

   "Steph and I are totally hot for each other," Keneally said over the
   loud music to several unspecified bar patrons. "We're going to make
   out. We don't care who's watching."
   [4]Enlarge Image Bar Skanks 

   The skanks pose for one of the hundreds of pictures taken over the
   course of the night.

   According to eyewitnesses who looked up the second they walked in the
   door, the 22-year-old skanks arrived at the bar at approximately 10
   p.m, dressed in their usual skank attire of low-cut tank tops paired
   with either low-rider jeans or a short skirt, and exposed, brightly
   colored thongs.

   After downing their third cosmopolitans, the two skanks stood up and
   began grinding to the R. Kelly song "I'm a Flirt," which caused a
   nearby conversation about the Cleveland Indians to come to a sudden
   halt.

   "Quit staring," Keneally said to the approximately 25 male patrons in
   the immediate vicinity, all of whom were by that time involuntarily
   ogling the skank-ass pair. "Oh my God, you guys are such pervs."

   Fletcher would neither confirm nor deny that the kiss would involve
   tongue, saying that bargoers "would just have to wait."
   [5]Enlarge Image Bar Skanks 

   The skank duo gyrates lasciviously as a growing crowd of men capture
   mental images for later use.

   "Who knows what will go down," Fletcher said as she reached into
   Keneally's tight top and tweaked her left breast with her thumb and
   middle finger in front of seven rapt onlookers. "Possibly us."

   In previous months, Keneally and Fletcher have, either separately or
   together, shown off their lower-back tattoos, held a loud conversation
   about who had the larger breasts, and displayed their oral sex
   techniques on bottles of Bud Light. Neither is a lesbian.

   "Those chicks are all over each other-- awesome!" said 24-year-old
   Matt Lalley, one of dozens of slightly intoxicated males who, despite
   their highly evolved brains, were unable to stop looking at the
   suggestive twosome. "This is going to be the best night of my life."

   As the evening wore on, the skanks' hair grew lank and stringy,
   increasingly clinging to their sweaty faces despite frequent
   coquettish head tosses. The heat and close quarters of the small bar
   also caused  the sparkly body makeup worn by Fletcher to collect in
   the crevices of her collarbone and between her breasts. According to
   Wolverine's bartender Helene Dorman, the skanks also left thick hot
   pink lipstick prints on their drink glasses.

   However, none of these factors resulted in any decrease in the amount
   of attention paid to the skanks.

   "I just can't look away," said Frank Sturm, watching as Keneally
   leaned over the pool table to display her plunging neckline for the
   ninth time. "And the thing is, the one in the skirt isn't even all
   that hot."

   "I'd really like to think I'm above this," Sturm's friend, Greg
   Kleist, added. "But what can I say? I'm not. They're totally going to
   kiss."

   Not everyone was as enthusiastic about the pair's announcement. A
   28-year-old female bar patron rolled her eyes at the girls'
   predictable antics, and was immediately dismissed by Fletcher and
   Keneally as "jealous." The bartender reported that she'd seen similar
   scenes play out on countless other evenings.

   "You mean the one that flashed her tits last week is gonna make out
   with the girl who was telling everyone she wasn't wearing any
   underwear?" Dorman asked while setting out newly washed glasses.
   "Whatever."

   As of press time, the pair had still not kissed, as they were rumored
   to be waiting for someone to buy them another drink before astonishing
   onlookers with their shocking intra-gender lip-lock.


   CHICAGO--As Brian Urlacher triumphantly hoisted the George Halas
   Trophy Sunday, it was a symbol of more than just the Bears' 39-14
   victory over New Orleans--it was a symbol of hope to the thousands of
   Chicagoans who are still struggling to resume normal lives after the
   fire that swept through a 2,000-acre swath of downtown, killed over
   300 people, injured hundreds more, destroyed a third of Chicago's
   buildings, and left 100,000 residents homeless this past Oct. 8
   through Oct. 10, 1871.
   [4]Enlarge Image Bears Inspire A City Still Reeling From Great Chicago
   Fire Of 1871 

   "No disrespect to the Saints," Urlacher said, "but as much as this
   victory would have meant for any team, after what our city has been
   through, it means much more to us. Hopefully, going to the Super Bowl
   will help the people of Chicago put the terrible events of 135 years
   ago behind them."

   Coach Lovie Smith knows that just going to the Super Bowl, or even
   winning it, will do little to help the city rebuild, but says he is
   "humbled" by the inspiration Chicago residents feel when his team
   wins.

   "We know winning the Super Bowl won't put up a single ravaged building
   or house a single displaced family," Smith said in a press conference
   after the NFC championship game. "At this point, there's little we can
   do for the victims. But as long as we can inspire the community to
   hold on and get past what the Great Fire has done to them, we'll have
   done our job."

   "Everywhere I go, people are like, 'Thank you for what you're doing.
   Thank you for giving us hope.' And some of them are people whose
   families lost everything--homes, livestock, wagons, everything," said
   quarterback Rex Grossman, who has donated every game check of the
   postseason to the Chicago Fire Historical Society. "And I tell them,
   'No, thank you. After what you've been through over the past century
   or so, you give us a lot of hope.'"
   [5]Enlarge Image Bears Inspire Jump 

   Chicago had an uphill battle for recovery from the devastating blaze,
   a struggle made more difficult by drought, economic collapse, civil
   unrest between the city's Protestants, Catholics, and many recently
   freed slaves, and the apparent indifference to the city's plight by
   uncharismatic and unpopular Republican president Ulysses S. Grant.
   Still, the townspeople's imagination was captured by the successful
   rebuilding of the Chicago Bears, a task once seen as impossible.

   "In the days after the fire, there basically were no Chicago Bears,"
   said Mayor Richard Daley. "It took men of vision to found the team in
   nearby Decatur in 1919, move them to Chicago in 1921, and hire George
   Halas to coach them. The Bears made a huge effort to attract such
   great players such as Red Grange, Sid Luckman, Dick Butkus, Walter
   Payton, and Brian Urlacher. Basically, since the fire, they've turned
   the team from a total nonentity to a championship contender."

   "The people of Chicago see that and think, 'Hey, if the Bears can do
   that, we can make this city great again,'" he added.

   Schaumburg resident Tom Berry, a clothing salesman who bought Bears
   tickets as soon after the fire as he could afford them, knows what the
   team means to the area. "People lost great-great-grandfathers in the
   fire. Great-great-great grandfathers lost children in that fire. I
   think unless you were there, you wouldn't understand," Berry said.
   "You walk around downtown, look around at the historical sites of all
   that devastation, and it kind of brings you down."

   "Except on Sundays," Berry added. "On Sundays, you sit down and watch
   the Bears and somehow you just forget about all that, if only for a
   while."


   LOS ANGELES--Actor Ben Affleck, best known for his role in the 2003
   film Daredevil, told reporters Monday he would really like to see
   action hero Jason Bourne, played by longtime friend Matt Damon,
   acquire a sidekick in his next film.
   [4]Enlarge Image Ben Affleck 

   Affleck outside the William Morris Agency in Beverly Hills on Monday.

   "I was thinking that the character, who would probably be Bourne's
   childhood friend, could really breathe some new life into the series,"
   said Affleck, adding that the Jason Bourne character ran the risk of
   boring American audiences if the superspy wasn't allowed to show a
   more human side in his films. "I envision the sidekick as being
   taller, slightly beefier, and having darker hair than Bourne. He may
   not be the smartest, but he could provide comic relief and would
   always look out for his best friend."

   "I know a few people who would play the part," the Jersey Girl and
   Gigli star continued. "Hell, even I would put some projects aside to
   do it if that's what the producers wanted."

   According to Affleck, the fourth film in the Bourne franchise, which
   has traditionally taken place in European locales but was most
   recently set in New York City, needs a refreshing location that would
   surprise filmgoers, such as gritty South Boston. Just moments after
   the opening credits, the amnesiac CIA assassin would learn that he
   grew up there, had an abusive childhood, dropped out of high school,
   and once worked  as a janitor at a local college.

   Affleck said he ultimately imagined the film as being less a
   traditional spy thriller and more about friendship and the importance
   of realizing one's true potential.

   "The sidekick represents the kind of life Bourne would have lived had
   he never gone off and become a hotshot CIA agent with a big-time
   career," said Affleck, who described the new character as having
   suffered a string of bad luck and made a number of poor life choices.
   "Basically, his character would kill to have Bourne's natural fighting
   and spying ability, but it's his role in the movie to show Bourne that
   even though he is a very gifted and talented individual, he should
   never leave his old friends behind."

   Though Affleck, who offered to write the script for free, anticipates
   more lengthy scenes of dialogue than is typical for a Bourne film, he
   promised the movie would not be without its signature fight sequences.
   Affleck said he had already storyboarded one scene, set at a Boston
   Red Sox game, in which Bourne, the sidekick, and another high school
   friend, played by director Kevin Smith, get into a fast-paced drunken
   argument over the film Star Wars and each of their respective mothers.

   "How do you like them apples?" said Affleck, referring to what the
   sidekick could theoretically say after Bourne breaks the necks of
   several security guards at Fenway Park.

   Affleck, who won a Teen Choice Award for his work in 2001's Pearl
   Harbor, said he plans to pitch the idea to Damon the next time the two
   see each other, hopefully at an Emmy Awards after-party next month. If
   Affleck loses his invitation for the event Damon is attending, as he
   reportedly did last year, he and Damon will discuss the project during
   one of the rare weekends in which Damon is not working on a film and
   both actors happen to be at home in their native Massachusetts at the
   same time.

   "I really think he'll go for this," Affleck said. "I know Matt Damon
   better than anyone in the world, and I just know he's going to love
   this. I know it. He just has to."

   While admitting that a fourth Bourne film has not been discussed,
   executive producer Doug Liman agreed that a sidekick character might
   be worth exploring. Liman wrote in an e-mail Friday that he already
   had a short list of possible candidates for the role, including Vince
   Vaughn, John C. Reilly, Luke Wilson, Tim Robbins, Minnie Driver,
   Philip Seymour Hoffman, Casey Affleck, Don Cheadle, and Adam Sandler.


   CHARLESTON, SC--After spending two months accompanying his wife,
   Hillary, on the campaign trail, former president Bill Clinton
   announced Monday that he is joining the 2008 presidential race, saying
   he "could no longer resist the urge."

   "My fellow Americans, I am sick and tired of not being president,"
   said Clinton, introducing his wife at a "Hillary '08" rally. "For
   seven agonizing years, I have sat idly by as others experienced the
   joys of campaigning, debating, and interacting with the people of this
   great nation, and I simply cannot take it anymore. I have to be
   president again. I have to."
   [4]Enlarge Image Bill Clinton 

   "Damn, this feels good," Clinton told supporters as he shook hands in
   Charleston Monday.

   He continued, "It is with a great sense of relief that I say to all of
   you today, 'Screw it. I'm in.'"

   In a show of respect, Clinton then completed his introduction of
   Hillary Clinton, calling her a "wonderful wife and worthy political
   adversary," and warmly shook her hand as she approached the podium. A
   clearly shocked Mrs. Clinton got halfway through her speech about the
   nation's obligation to its children before walking briskly offstage.

   A spokesman for Sen. Clinton's campaign had no comment.

   "No longer will I have to endure watching candidates like Hillary
   Clinton engaging in single-pump handshakes with voters, as I use every
   last ounce of restraint not to shout out, 'No! Warm double-clasp! Warm
   double-clasp!'" Clinton said. "America deserves someone who can do it
   right."

   While the announcement has come as a surprise to many, Beltway
   observers said it was not completely unexpected, citing footage from a
   recent Democratic debate that showed Clinton fidgeting in his seat,
   gripping the arms of his chair, and repeatedly glancing at all the
   television cameras while rapidly tapping his right foot. Analysts also
   noted one debate in which Clinton mouthed responses to all the
   moderator's questions while making hand gestures to himself.

   Clinton told reporters Tuesday that seeing so many "Clinton '08"
   posters "really got [him] thinking," and said that the fact that he
   was already wearing a suit, and smiling and waving on the campaign
   trail was an added motivator.

   "From signing healthcare reform legislation, to working with
   politicians from across the aisle, to brokering international peace
   treaties with foreign dignitaries, I goddamn love being president,"
   Clinton said. "For too long has this nation been deprived of a Bill
   Clinton presidency, and for too long have I been deprived of being
   president. Now I get to experience all these wonderful things again
   myself."

   "And the applause," Clinton added. "I look forward to the endless roar
   of applause perhaps most of all."

   Since his announcement two days ago, Clinton has raised a staggering
   $550 million. He has also surged in national polls, rising from a mere
   2 percent prior to his candidacy to a commanding 94 percent, ahead of
   former front-runners Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton, who are now
   tied with 3 percent each. John Edwards withdrew from the race Tuesday,
   saying only, "I am not worthy."

   Although some have pointed out that it is unconstitutional for Clinton
   to run for a third term in office, he has silenced most critics by
   urging voters "not to worry about the Constitution for now" and
   assuring them he will address those legal issues immediately after
   regaining control of the White House.

   "All I am asking of the American people is four more years," Clinton
   said at a fundraiser Tuesday where tens of thousands of South
   Carolinians gathered to stare in gape-jawed wonderment at the former
   president. "Well, maybe eight. Actually, you know what, definitely
   eight. Eight more years."

   Thus far, the response among voters has been positive.

   "I love Bill Clinton," said Orangeburg, SC resident Marsha Demarais.
   "God, he was just so great as president. Can we just make him
   president again right now?"

   Clinton also noted that, if elected, the timing would be perfect for
   his family, as his wife has recently expressed a desire to move back
   to the D.C. area.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Flanked by key members of Congress and his
   administration, President Bush approved Monday a streamlined version
   of the Bill of Rights that pares its 10 original amendments down to a
   "tight, no-nonsense" six.

   [4]Enlarge Image Bush signs 

   As supporters look on, Bush signs the Bill Of Rights Reduction And
   Consolidation Act.

   A Republican initiative that went unopposed by congressional
   Democrats, the revised Bill of Rights provides citizens with a "more
   manageable" set of privacy and due-process rights by eliminating four
   amendments and condensing and/or restructuring five others. The Second
   Amendment, which protects the right to keep and bear arms, was the
   only article left unchanged.

   Calling the historic reduction "a victory for America," Bush promised
   that the new document would do away with "bureaucratic impediments to
   the flourishing of democracy at home and abroad."

   "It is high time we reaffirmed our commitment to this enduring symbol
   of American ideals," Bush said. "By making the Bill of Rights a tool
   for progress instead of a hindrance to freedom, we honor the true
   spirit of our nation's forefathers."

   The Fourth Amendment, which long protected citizens' homes against
   unreasonable search and seizure, was among the eliminated amendments.
   Also stricken was the Ninth Amendment, which stated that the
   enumeration of certain Constitutional rights does not result in the
   abrogation of rights not mentioned.

   "Quite honestly, I could never get my head around what the Ninth
   Amendment meant anyway," said outgoing House Majority Leader Dick
   Armey (R-TX), one of the leading advocates of the revised Bill of
   Rights. "So goodbye to that one."

   Amendments V through VII, which guaranteed the right to legal counsel
   in criminal cases, and guarded against double jeopardy, testifying
   against oneself, biased juries, and drawn-out trials, have been
   condensed into Super-Amendment V: The One About Trials.

   Attorney General John Ashcroft hailed the slimmed-down Bill of Rights
   as "a positive step."

   "Go up to the average citizen and ask them what's in the Bill of
   Rights," Ashcroft said. "Chances are, they'll have only a vague
   notion. They just know it's a set of rules put in place to protect
   their individual freedoms from government intrusion, and they assume
   that's a good thing."

   [5]Enlarge Image Bill of rights revisions 

   Bush works on revisions to the Bill of Rights.

   Ashcroft responded sharply to critics who charge that the Bill of
   Rights no longer safeguards certain basic, inalienable rights.

   "We're not taking away personal rights; we're increasing personal
   security," Ashcroft said. "By allowing for greater government control
   over the particulars of individual liberties, the Bill of Rights will
   now offer expanded personal freedoms whenever they are deemed
   appropriate and unobtrusive to the activities necessary to effective
   operation of the federal government."

   Ashcroft added that, thanks to several key additions, the Bill of
   Rights now offers protections that were previously lacking, including
   the right to be protected by soldiers quartered in one's home
   (Amendment III), the guarantee that activities not specifically
   delegated to the states and people will be carried out by the federal
   government (Amendment VI), and freedom of Judeo-Christianity and
   non-combative speech (Amendment I).

   According to U.S. Sen. Larry Craig (R-ID), the original Bill of
   Rights, though well-intentioned, was "seriously outdated."

   "The United States is a different place than it was back in 1791,"
   Craig said. "As visionary as they were, the framers of the
   Constitution never could have foreseen, for example, that our
   government would one day need to jail someone indefinitely without
   judicial review. There was no such thing as suspicious Middle Eastern
   immigrants back then."

   Ashcroft noted that recent FBI efforts to conduct investigations into
   "unusual activities" were severely hampered by the old Fourth
   Amendment.

   "The Bill of Rights was written more than 200 years ago, long before
   anyone could even fathom the existence of wiretapping technology or
   surveillance cameras," Ashcroft said. "Yet through a bizarre fluke, it
   was still somehow worded in such a way as to restrict use of these
   devices. Clearly, it had to go before it could do more serious damage
   in the future."

   The president agreed.

   "Any machine, no matter how well-built, periodically needs a tune-up
   to keep it in good working order," Bush said. "Now that we have the
   bugs worked out of the ol' Constitution, she'll be purring like a
   kitten when Congress reconvenes in January--just in time to work on a
   new round of counterterrorism legislation."

   "Ten was just too much of a handful," Bush added. "Six civil liberties
   are more than enough."


   NEW YORK--In one of the largest marketing coups in recent years,
   holiday cheer--the intangible spirit of goodwill towards man, peace on
   Earth, and warmth in the hearts of all--will now be sponsored by the
   Toyota Motor Corporation, sources reported Tuesday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Holiday Cheer 

   One of 100 million greeting cards Toyota is sending out to the
   American public this Christmas season.

   The exclusive $30 million deal, which includes promotional tie-ins
   with the season's first snowfall and the smell of roasted turkey
   wafting gently through a warm and cozy home, was signed earlier this
   week by Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A. executive vice president James
   Lentz.

   "We are very excited to be working with holiday cheer," said Lentz,
   who called the look of wonder on a young child's face and the
   company's new line of durable trucks a "natural pairing." "From now
   on, whenever anyone curls up in front of a crackling fireplace, or
   takes a moment to reflect on the importance of family, Toyota will be
   there."

   Added Lentz: "This truly is the most wonderful time of the year."

   While many details of the deal are still unclear, Lentz said that the
   automotive company has been awarded endorsement rights to all
   affection and joy experienced during the month of December. Toyota
   will also be the chief sponsor of numerous holiday-related events,
   such as the untangling of Christmas lights while listening to Bing
   Crosby sing old seasonal classics, and the making or consuming of
   eggnog.

   Additionally, as is specified in the terms of the agreement, all sugar
   plum fairies will now be preceded by a 15-second Toyota ad before
   dancing inside consumers' heads.

   "Landing holiday cheer was huge for us," said Toyota marketing
   executive Rebecca Greer, moments after announcing that the 2008
   Corolla would be the official car of sitting down with loved ones and
   reminiscing about years past. "We got trapped in a bidding war with
   General Motors over the sound of carolers beneath an open window, but
   it was worth it in the end."

   "After all, yuletide spirit is everywhere you look," Greer added. "Or,
   I should say, 'Toyota Presents: Yuletide Spirit' is everywhere you
   look."

   Toyota's marketing campaign has reportedly increased sales figures by
   3 percent in the last week alone, and investors are hopeful that the
   deal will continue to spread the holiday message of generosity,
   compassion for others, superior handling on all luxury 4Runners, good
   tidings, antilock brakes on every SUV and year-end truck, and faith in
   your fellow man.

   "We've enjoyed a steady increase in revenue since becoming a proud
   supporter of warming up with a hot cup of cocoa," Toyota promotions
   director Kyle Williamson said. "Plus, sponsoring that priceless smile
   on your wife's face Christmas morning will only open more potential
   growth markets to us."

   Toyota is not the first company to make a cross-promotional deal with
   a popular indefinable entity, however. In 2002, Johnson & Johnson
   secured a partnership with a mother's unconditional love for her
   child, while Budweiser paired up with a teenager' s desire to escape
   feelings of social anxiety and confusion in 2005.

   Despite Toyota's initial success, many market analysts claim that the
   car company may have overpaid for its abstract product placement.

   "This might have been a smart move in the 1950s, or even the '60s,
   when holiday cheer was still alive and well," Car & Driver reporter
   and family black sheep Malcolm Jones said. "But these days, Toyota
   could have gotten twice the exposure for half the cost had it
   sponsored holiday depression and ill will instead. And if they had
   been willing to buy out Lean Cuisine frozen meals' stake in post-New
   Year's resignation and apathy, the ad tie-ins could have extended well
   into January."

   While only time will tell what effect the marketing subterfuge will
   ultimately have on consumers, Toyota's tactics have already angered a
   number of Americans.

   "The holidays shouldn't be about consumerism--they should be about
   faith, and hope, and the simple pleasures in life," Chicago resident
   Samantha Bryant said. "Like the all-new Toyota Camry, for instance."

   Brady Quinn

   CLEVELAND--Establishing a reputation for quarterback performance that
   football insiders have called "reasonable," Browns quarterback Brady
   Quinn silenced his critics and stunned his coaches, teammates, and
   family by performing competently enough in his limited play during
   preseason games to put the Cleveland Browns in 2007 post-preseason
   contention.

   "I guess I can only say 'Wow,'" former Miami Dolphins quarterback and
   current Inside The NFL co-host Dan Marino said Tuesday following the
   announcement that Cleveland would advance to the regular season,
   playing the Pittsburgh Steelers in their first game on Sept. 9. "Wow.
   I think I speak for everyone when I say no one thought Brady Quinn
   could do it. To see him come into that preseason game against the
   Lions and just embarrass one of the best auto mechanics to ever play
   cornerback in the NFL...I admit it, I didn't think he had it in him."

   "Quinn seemed possessed, like he was out there playing like it was the
   last game those other guys would ever play," added Marino, saying
   Quinn reminded him of a younger version of a quarterback who used to
   back him up.

   In his first-ever preseason start against the Detroit Lions, Quinn
   defied the extremely low expectations when he did not run out onto the
   field with his helmet on backwards, trip over the yard lines, line up
   to take the snap behind a wideout, or attempt to roll the ball down
   the field towards his receivers.

   "I couldn't believe what I was seeing," said Sports Illustrated
   football writer Peter King. "The conventional wisdom going into that
   game was that Brady Quinn was a huge mistake on the part of the
   Browns. But anyone who saw him will tell you he might not be all that
   big of a mistake after all."

   This breathtaking display of basic knowledge of football fundamentals
   continued in a workmanlike display of quarterbacking against a group
   of men attempting to make the Lions, as Quinn threw for 81 yards while
   not falling into any random holes or stepping on any rakes that had
   been left lying around the field. And in the final game of the
   preseason, facing a Bears defense that almost certainly contained
   players who will make Chicago's taxi squad, Quinn threw only a single
   interception while conspicuously not lighting himself or his teammates
   on fire or tying his shoelaces together even once.

   Predictably, Browns fans were ecstatic at the level of Quinn's
   performance.

   "Mark my words, Brady is going to be one of our quarterbacks of the
   immediate future," said Ken Fairfield, a Browns preseason-ticket
   holder who said he would be camping out for regular-season Browns
   tickets long before they went on sale, if not for the fact they would
   almost certainly be readily available. "I can't believe people said he
   wouldn't even be an adequate field general. If what I saw in the
   second halves of those games wasn't adequate, I don't know what is."

   "I'm completely surprised...I always felt that we could count on Quinn
   to totally blow it, but this is whole different side that we could
   never imagine," Browns head coach Romeo Crennel said. "I anticipated
   that he would hand off the ball to the first defensive lineman he saw.
   I even game-planned for it, keeping a fullback deep in the backfield
   to tackle him if he started running the wrong way.  But then he goes
   and throws a basic little dump-off pass to Cribbs in the flat and it
   turns into a touchdown."

   "I'm not saying we wouldn't have made it to the regular season without
   him," said Crennel, "but his play certainly didn't hurt. Which is one
   hell of a nice surprise, let me tell you."

   Charlie Frye has been confirmed as the starter for the Sept. 9 game.
   Quinn is currently fourth on the depth chart, behind Frye, Derek
   Anderson, and strong-armed long-snapper Ryan Pontbriand.


   LOS ANGELES--With Hollywood starlets facing new troubles this
   year--Paris Hilton and Nicole Richie serving jail time, Lindsay Lohan
   entering rehab, and Britney Spears losing custody of her children due
   to substance abuse and reckless behavior--former Grace Under Fire star
   and pill-popping, chain-smoking, twice-divorced drunk driver Brett
   Butler has become America's de facto sweetheart.
   [4]Enlarge Image Brett Butler 

   Butler, a relative pillar of normalcy.

   "Not once in 2007 was Brett Butler arrested, seen exposing her
   genitals in public, or featured drunk and high on the cover of a
   tabloid magazine," celebrity insider Dianne Newton said. "In fact,
   Brett Butler has not been photographed at all since 1999."

   "Thank you, Ms. Butler," Newton added. "Finally, there is someone whom
   young girls can truly look up to as a role model."

   Though Butler has had her share of problems in the past, her
   publicist, Cindy Brenneman, proudly noted that Butler has been sober
   for three years, no longer abuses sleeping pills, and rarely leaves
   her house.

   "Brett is doing relatively great," Brenneman said. "She has shown
   incredible class and integrity recently by not getting wildly
   intoxicated and climbing behind the wheel of a car without a license,
   abusing narcotics to the point that she is putting her own children's
   lives in danger, sobbing uncontrollably on live television about a
   puppy, or killing a man in cold blood, like Home Improvement's
   Patricia Richardson did in July."

   Despite her current state, however, experts predict that the exposure
   Butler will receive from being thrust once again into the national
   spotlight will likely send her spiraling into a drug-fueled depression
   and will be capped by a fatal overdose of painkillers in her Miami
   hotel room early next year.


   GREEN BAY--Three-time MVP and undisputed future Hall of Fame
   quarterback Brett Favre, disappointed with the Packers' refusal to
   aggressively pursue receiver Randy Moss and frustrated with his team's
   apparent indifference to making immediate improvements on offense, is
   demanding a trade to the team he feels will give him the best shot at
   winning a last Super Bowl ring before his retirement: the 1996 Green
   Bay Packers.
   [4]Enlarge Image Brett Favre 

   "I just don't think this Packer team, and GM Ted Thompson especially,
   is thinking in terms of winning with me," said Favre, speaking to
   reporters at his charity golf tournament in Mississippi Sunday. "On
   the other hand, 1996 Packers GM Ron Wolf is committed to building the
   team completely around me. I don't think it's out of the question to
   say that with me behind center, the 1996 Packers are looking at going
   all the way to the Super Bowl."

   Early reports had indicated that Favre was so upset that his team
   failed to close a draft-day deal for Randy Moss with the Oakland
   Raiders that his agent called Packers GM Ted Thompson and requested a
   trade to a team with capable receivers.

   "Nothing against Donald [Driver] and Greg [Jennings], but if I can't
   throw it to Randy Moss, then I want to throw it to Antonio Freeman,
   Robert Brooks, and Don Beebe," Favre said. "I bet with them, I'd have
   more of a chance of throwing for, say, 3,899 yards and 39 touchdowns,
   with maybe as few as 13 interceptions. Who knows? That kind of
   production could even get me another MVP award, although of course
   that's much less important than leading the '96 Pack to another Super
   Bowl victory."

   Favre also noted that, unlike the young and unproven 2007 Packers, the
   1996 Packers boasted seasoned veterans on both sides of the ball.

   "It sure would be great to play alongside Reggie White again--I get
   chills just thinking about seeing him in the locker room," Favre said.
   "That whole '96 defense is great, too. Santana Dotson is a force in
   the middle. That LeRoy Butler, I tell you, he's one of the most
   underrated safeties in the game. Desmond Howard isn't a bad kick
   returner, either. And unlike the Packer backfield I got now, the '96
   Packers still feature William Henderson at fullback."

   "Mark Chmura, though, I don't know," Favre admitted. "Decent tight
   end, but something about him isn't quite right."

   In addition to the more elite personnel, Favre praised the aggressive
   attitude of the coaching squad and front office of the Packers of
   1996, saying he was a fan of head coach Mike Holmgren's West Coast
   offense and Wolf's aggressive recruiting strategies.

   "I think Holmgren and I would make an interesting team," Favre said.
   "He could teach me a lot. We could learn from each other. And I know
   Ron Wolf would have my back. If, say, our number-one receiver gets
   knocked out for the season in Week 7, I believe Wolf would go right
   after a great veteran free agent, like maybe Andre Rison, to give us
   an edge in the playoffs. I can almost guarantee that."

   "It would really be something," Favre said. "We'd be one of the
   all-time great teams, a once-in-a-lifetime thing, you know? I'm going
   to have my agent look into it right away."

   Although the Packers had no immediate comment, head coach Mike
   McCarthy said the team would be "heartbroken" to part with its
   greatest player, although in deference to Favre's long service, and
   for the good of the current team, they would be willing to consider a
   trade package including a first-round pick in the 2008 NFL draft and
   the 1996 Brett Favre.


   WASHINGTON--The Senate Judiciary Committee announced Monday that,
   after five days of intense questioning, internal debate, and outside
   testimony, it is no closer to confirming Dr. Richard J. Applebaum,
   President George W. Bush's controversial nominee to be the 73rd
   presidential dentist in U.S. history.
   [4]Enlarge Image Bush's New Dentist 

   Applebaum--a Howard University College of Dentistry graduate, owner of
   the private practice Gentle Dental, and close friend of the Bush
   family--faced a seemingly unending battery of questions during the
   first week of his confirmation hearing, with the committee's 19
   members grilling him on issues ranging from tooth decay to tartar
   control to the divisive "brushing side-to-side or up-and-down"
   question.

   According to committee chairman Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-VT), however,
   the most important matter is restoring honor and dignity to the
   dentist's office.

   "We cannot stand by and allow the Republicans to rubber-stamp another
   dentist," Leahy said on NBC's Meet The Press Sunday. "We need someone
   with integrity. Someone who will not ignore untreated abscesses in the
   posterior region of the mouth. Someone who will not simply be told
   that Mr. Bush flosses daily and blindly accept that as fact. Someone
   who is tough on plaque, yet gentle around the gums."

   Applebaum's testimony thus far indicates that he has always been a
   vocal proponent of mercury amalgam fillings, which does not sit well
   with some of the Democrats in the Senate. He has, however, earned
   bipartisan approval for his policy on latex gloves. In addition, he
   has shown a commitment to featuring a wide selection of toothpaste
   flavors--including pina colada--and, with the exception of two
   occasions in the summer of 1992, has consistently consulted patients
   beforehand as to their favorite flavor.

   His stance on fluoride treatment is unknown.

   Although Applebaum's testimony has revealed a philosophy largely in
   line with current dental thought, his record is not unblemished. An
   FBI investigation launched shortly after his nomination revealed
   conflicting viewpoints on the issue of brushing.

   "Dr. Applebaum, according to our records, in March of 1999, you told a
   patient by the name of Bev Kaplansky that it was advisable to brush
   twice a day. Yet just two years later, in February of 2001, you told
   one Mr. Grayson Peters that brushing should occur after every meal," a
   transcript of Sen. Dick Durbin's (D-IL) questioning read in part.
   "Well, which is it, Dr. Applebaum? Two times a day, or after every
   meal?"

   Applebaum's refusal to answer Sen. Durbin's question has led many
   Democrats and some Republicans to declare that they will not support
   his confirmation, claiming that they do not want "another Dr.
   Cesario."

   Dr. Samuel Cesario, Bush's previous dentist, served for a tumultuous
   two years before resigning in October amid accusations that he
   politicized the position by handing out free toothbrushes and floss
   dispensers to the president, that he was pro-gingivitis, and that he
   ordered the illegal torture of several U.S.-held detainees.

   While most agree that Applebaum represents a significant upgrade from
   Cesario, Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA) was disappointed that Bush did not
   select the senator's own dentist, Dr. Harry Gellert, whom Specter has
   long championed as "a very nice man."

   The media, meanwhile, has often portrayed Applebaum as a beneficiary
   of nepotism, as both his father and grandfather worked in the dental
   profession. Some critics have been even harsher. In a recent segment
   that has been highly circulated on the Internet and within the
   political blogosphere, MSNBC's Keith Olbermann called Applebaum, 52, a
   "spineless hypocrite who is being called on not to clean teeth, but to
   obsequiously kowtow to the Bush administration."

   "In a 1987 checkup with a young child who shall remain nameless, you
   purportedly discouraged the consumption of so-called 'sweets,' but
   just moments later, sir, you rewarded that same child with a lollipop
   from the office treasure chest," Olbermann said during a "special
   comment" addressed to Applebaum on the program Countdown. "Are we to
   believe that you do not classify lollipops as 'sweets,' sir? And more
   importantly: Is this really the man we want scraping the gums of the
   leader of the free world?"

   Though Bush, who is said to be suffering from a severe toothache, has
   urged a swift confirmation and even threatened to name Applebaum as a
   recess appointment, there is speculation that the Democrats may
   attempt to filibuster the nomination, as they did to 1968 chief
   justice appointee Abe Fortas and 2003 White House plumber nominee
   Dave.


   WASHINGTON--In an unexpected reversal that environmentalists and
   scientists worldwide are calling groundbreaking, President George W.
   Bush, for the first time in his political career, openly admitted to
   the existence of carbon dioxide following the release of the new U.N.
   Global Environment Outlook this October.
   [4]Enlarge Image Bush Acknowledges 

   The announcement has wide-ranging implications for exhalation, club
   soda, and photosynthesis.

   "Carbon dioxide, a molecule which contains one atom of carbon bonded
   with two atoms of oxygen, is a naturally occurring colorless gas
   exhaled by humans and metabolized, in turn, by plants," Bush told a
   stunned White House press corps. "As a leading industrialized nation,
   we can no longer afford to ignore the growing consensus of so many
   experts whose job it is to study our atmosphere. Carbon dioxide is
   real."

   Because carbon dioxide, which was first described by 17th-century
   Flemish physician Jan Baptista van Helmont as a gas he referred to as
   "spiritus silvestre," has long been denied by the Bush administration,
   the president's speech was widely hailed as a victory for advocates of
   empirically established scientific fact.

   "This has been a major step forward for national basic-chemistry
   policy," said longtime CO2 proponent and eighth-grade science teacher
   Linda Mattson. "By taking this brave stance, Bush has opened the door
   for the eventual acknowledgment that other molecular compounds, such
   as H20, for example, may in fact exist as well."

   Many of those whom Bush has long considered to be his most loyal
   followers, however, have expressed disappointment with the
   development.

   "There is nothing about any 'carbon dioxide' in the Bible," said Rev.
   Luke Hatfield of Christchurch Ministries in Topeka, KS. "What's next?
   Claims that so-called 'fossil' fuels come from mythical creatures like
   dinosaurs? This has been a sad step backward for our nation."

   A White House spokesman was careful to categorize the announcement as
   "cautious," and reiterated that the president is still not ready to
   take any position on the existence of polar ice caps, ozone, or a
   controversial idea held by many scientists and often referred to as
   "weather."


   WASHINGTON--As his last term in office winds to a close, President
   Bush has directed White House aids and Cabinet staff to begin
   preparing for 2008, the nation's 232nd and final year in existence.

   "My fellow Americans, it has been an honor to be your last president,"
   said Bush during a televised address Tuesday, assuring citizens he
   would do everything possible over the next few months to promote a
   smooth transition into utter oblivion. "I want you all to know that I
   do not intend to let what precious little time we have left go to
   waste. That's why I ask all citizens to pull together and follow me,
   so we can accomplish everything we've ever wanted to before it all
   crumbles around us in a terrible belch of smoke and ash."

   Added Bush, "It's now or never, people. No regrets."

   As part of his ambitious 11-and-a-half-month plan, Bush has
   prioritized winning the War on Terror in order to secure Iraq's
   stability in a world where the U.S. is nothing more than a fleeting
   memory. Additionally, he has urged Congress to block upcoming
   stem-cell legislation "just in case," and has set aside the months of
   April and May to get in touch with all countries the U.S. has wronged
   in the past and apologize, and default on America's $9.16 trillion
   dollar international debt with a wild spending spree, respectively.
   [4]Enlarge Image Bush Begins Preparations For Nation's Final Year 

   A special executive committee has also been formed to draft the
   country's final words.

   In response to critics who claim Bush is a lame duck and plans to pass
   the responsibility of helplessly watching the collapse of society onto
   the next president, Bush said he is "still the commander in chief,"
   and remains dedicated to solidifying America's legacy before the
   darkness takes hold.

   "I am committed to making this the best damn Swan Song the world has
   ever seen," said Bush, after enclosing a copy of the Constitution and
   a recipe for corn dogs in an air-tight titanium capsule to be placed
   just across the Canadian border. "I know this looks like the end--and
   it is--but I intend to go out with a bang. Now, who's with me?"

   The president held a special America Wrap-Up press conference with
   members of the international press earlier today, where he spoke
   frankly with reporters and gave out long, heartfelt hugs. Bush also
   took time from his hectic schedule of staring blankly into the gaping
   maw of absolute dissolution to reflect on the country's past and look
   forward to its 281-day future.

   "Our great nation will be a shining, then blinking, then slowly fading
   beacon to the world," Bush said. "As our time as a sovereign country
   with borders and currency comes to a close, let us hope we will be
   remembered for all the great things we accomplished, and not for the
   1960s."

   "We sure did have some good times, didn't we?" Bush added.

   To help the members of Congress pass the time until both houses are a
   jagged shell of concrete and marble, looted of valuables by roving
   bands of nomadic warlords to sell for spears and kerosene, Bush
   submitted to the Senate a short list of what he called "Dream
   Projects" to be carried out in the tenuous weeks following Dec. 9,
   2008. The nation's last acts include approving one final
   all-encompassing tax break, launching a nationwide skydiving
   initiative, reducing carbon emissions by 1 percent over the next
   decade, and writing his memoirs.

   Members of the Bush Administration have consulted with top officials
   from the CIA, the FBI, NASA, the USDA, the Centers for Disease
   Control, noted scholars on the myth of Narcissus, a Chernobyl
   survivor, and the International Atomic Energy Agency to determine if
   the U.S. will indeed have time to carry out its final wishes. Bush,
   however, has instructed all Americans "not to get [their] hopes up."

   The Democrats, who will hold a majority in the House and Senate until
   the rule of law is supplanted by an especially savage series of blood
   feuds, have promised to work with the president for whatever it's
   worth.

   "None of that matters now, don't you see?" Speaker of the House Nancy
   Pelosi said. "What will it matter how many Kyoto Protocols we didn't
   sign or whether we're going to invade Iran in March? Have any of you
   ever seen a sunset--I mean really seen it?"

   While Congress continues to assist the president as we hurdle toward
   what is known in Norse mythology as Ragnark or "Doom of the Gods,"
   some have expressed anger at Washington's perceived unwillingness to
   take action in the face of the coming wall of fire.

   "Are we just going to sit back and wait for January?" said Chelsea
   Furlong, a Tennessee resident and uninsured mother of three. "That's
   going to take forever. My branch is closing next month--can't we just
   get it over with then?"


   WASHINGTON, DC--In an unexpected move that shocked White House staff
   and stunned the nation, President George W. Bush arrived unannounced
   at the Oval Office Monday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Bush 

   President Bush exits Marine One at the start of his four-hour visit to
   Washington's White House.

   Bush, who flew in from his home in Texas, was greeted by security
   forces upon landing outside the White House, and quickly escorted
   through the building's back entrance. Wearing a special suit-and-tie
   uniform intended to boost morale and show support for men and women
   serving in the Beltway, Bush entered the East Room at about 3:30 p.m.
   and addressed a bewildered but enthusiastic crowd of staff members.

   "Am I late?" Bush joked to the group of approximately 200, who were
   led to believe they would be attending a ceremony to honor Secretary
   of Transportation Mary Peters. Bush's entrance received a standing
   ovation.

   "It is incredible to see firsthand what you brave men and women do
   every day," Bush said to rousing applause. "You are all heroes."

   Telling the group he wished he had the time to work alongside each and
   every one of them, Bush made general inquiries about conditions at the
   executive mansion, recruitment of new personnel, and where everyone
   was eating for lunch.

   According to sources close to the president, Bush barely had time to
   rest during the four-hour visit. He first met face-to-face with
   several high-ranking U.S. officials, who briefed him on the situation
   in Washington. Bush then signed a number of documents, took a guided
   tour of the facilities, and in a symbolic show of support for the
   current administration, shook hands with the vice president.
   [5]Enlarge Image Bush 

   Bush poses with a White House official during his brief stopover.

   Bush was also granted permission to sit in on an important Cabinet
   meeting concerning U.S. counterterrorism efforts. Those who were
   present said the president mostly observed, but noted that he did ask
   "a lot" of questions. Afterward, Bush sat behind the Oval Office desk
   and shuffled papers for 15 minutes while news photographers snapped
   photographs.

   For most members of the White House staff, it was their first chance
   to meet the president. Many said they were "overcome" with excitement.

   "When I was getting ready for work this morning, the last person I
   ever thought I'd see was the president of the United States," said
   Alexander Mistri, special assistant to the president for legislative
   affairs.

   "I actually got to shake hands with the president," Secretary of Labor
   Elaine Chao said. "He seems like a very nice man in person."

   While Bush made surprise trips to work in August 2004 and stopped by
   in July 2005 to pick up a paycheck, Monday's visit marked his first
   extended stay since last December.

   For security reasons, the trip was shrouded in secrecy. Sources say
   the president was ushered out of his Crawford, TX home just before
   noon Monday, while his family and closest friends were under the
   assumption that he was sleeping in, per normal vacation protocol. Only
   a few officials were informed of the trip, including his chief of
   staff Joshua Bolten, Defense Secretary Robert Gates, and Bush's
   fishing buddy Dale.

   Many claim the trip was staged as a "media ploy" intended to convince
   the public that the administration's occupation of Washington, D.C. is
   not a lost cause.

   "President Bush wants us to believe that he is in touch with the Bush
   administration," political analyst Garry Wills said. "But this is too
   little, too late. Mr. Bush has staked his legacy on the success of the
   work being done in the White House, but if I were him, I'd be thinking
   more about an exit strategy than rallying the grunts on the ground."

   Despite such criticisms, Bush's visit ended on a positive note. At
   4:55 p.m. Monday, he gave a parting speech to staff, thanking them for
   their hard work, explaining that the future of the country rests in
   their hands, and promising that they would all be sent home to their
   families "very soon."


   WASHINGTON, DC--Departing from his usual hopeful rhetoric during a
   question-and-answer session with reporters in the White House Rose
   Garden, President Bush suggested Tuesday that the war in Iraq has not
   been successful because the nation's armed forces are "just not very
   good."
   [4]Enlarge Image Bush 

   Bush muses candidly about his new idea with the White House press
   corps.

   "When the decision was made to liberate Iraq, I was going on what my
   advisers were telling me and what everyone has said for nearly a
   century--that the U.S. military is the best in the world," Bush said.
   "But if that were the case, and we did have the most powerful army,
   navy, marines, and air force on the globe, we would be winning,
   right?"

   The president admitted that he'd been toying with the idea that a
   thorough lack of quality in personnel, from the top U.S. commander to
   the lowest-ranked private, is the only way to account for the colossal
   failure in Iraq, given that everything on the administrative side of
   the war has been carried out with the utmost care and precision.

   "I know the folks on our end didn't drop the ball," Bush said. "The
   civilian oversight of this war and the plan of attack has been
   brilliant. There's no doubt about that in my mind. Hate to say it, but
   maybe our men and women in uniform just aren't what they're cracked up
   to be."

   Bush conjectured that U.S. servicemen and women thrust into the
   horrifying chaos and violence of Iraq's Sunni Triangle may simply lack
   the proper perspective and cool detachment needed to implement an
   effective strategy against the insurgency. The commander in chief also
   wondered aloud why, for all their vaunted competence, American forces
   become disillusioned while fighting "for such a just and noble cause."
   [5]Enlarge Image Bush 

   Bush lamented the fact that the U.S. is "losing a lot of vehicles and
   equipment" in the ongoing conflict.

   "I know I should support the troops, especially in a time of war, but
   if they can't handle the pressure, maybe they don't deserve my
   support," Bush said. "They're making me look bad."

   "On the occasions I've met our troops, most of them didn't seem like
   they had much going for them," Bush added. "I don't think very many
   went to college or anything."

   Bush said that in the past year he has had much occasion to think
   about the U.S. military's role in history, which, he recently was
   forced to conclude, is "overrated." He traced the roots of the
   misperception back to the nation's victory in World War II.

   "We haven't really flat-out won a war since then, and you have to
   admit even that one was pretty close," the president said.

   Continued Bush: "We pretty much have a 3-4 record in terms of
   important wars, and that's being generous, because I'm counting the
   Civil War as a victory. We got absolutely killed in Vietnam, which was
   another war where the leadership at home did a fine job, only to be
   let down by the troops. Not quite sure what happened in Korea. And I
   thought we won the first Gulf War, but apparently we didn't, because
   we're still there."

   Shortly after the press conference, the White House announced that an
   advisory panel comprised of former officials from both Bush
   administrations and of private military contractors would be formed to
   devise effective solutions to problem areas in the nation's defense,
   namely the quality of the soldiers. Some of the likely recommendations
   include toughening recruitment standards so that not just anyone can
   enlist, and offering swift advancement opportunities for troops who
   show less dependence on the support current forces seem to constantly
   require from the American people. The panel is also expected to
   recommend that the nation enter into additional costly overseas
   conflicts as a way for the military to hone its combat skills.

   Yet even the most optimistic administration estimates acknowledge that
   these transformations are years, if not decades away from being
   implemented. Meanwhile, Bush still appears determined to maintain the
   American military presence in Iraq, telling reporters that the only
   way to improve the armed forces isn't to quit, but to "keep plugging
   away and hope they'll get better at this war business before they all
   get killed."


   AUSTIN, TX, OR NASHVILLE, TN-In one of the narrowest presidential
   votes in U.S. history, either George W. Bush or Al Gore was elected
   the 43rd president of the United States Tuesday, proclaiming the win
   "a victory for the American people and the dawn of a bold new era in
   this great nation."

   [4]Enlarge Image Bush Or Gore 

   Bush and Gore, one of whom called the election "a victory for
   America."

   "My fellow Americans," a triumphant Bush or Gore told throngs of
   jubilant, flag-waving supporters at his campaign headquarters,
   "tonight, we as a nation stand on the brink of many exciting new
   challenges. And I stand here before you to say that I am ready to meet
   those challenges."

   "The people have spoken," Bush or Gore continued, "and with their vote
   they have sent the message, loud and clear, that we are the true party
   of the people."

   With these words, the crowd of Republicans or Democrats erupted.

   Bush or Gore attributed his victory to his commitment to the issues
   that matter to ordinary, hardworking Americans. Throughout the
   campaign, the Republican or Democrat spoke out in favor of improving
   educational standards, protecting the environment, reducing crime,
   strengthening the military, cutting taxes, and reforming Social
   Security. He also took a strong pro-middle-class stand, praising
   America's working families as "the backbone of this great nation."

   "During this campaign, I had the good fortune to meet so many of you.
   And I listened to your concerns," Bush or Gore said. "And do you know
   what I found? That your concerns are the same as mine. Like
   64-year-old Rosemary Cullums of Wheeling, WV. She said to me, '[Mr.
   Bush or Mr. Gore], we need to restore a sense of values and decency to
   this country. I have three young grandchildren, and I worry about the
   filth they're exposed to on a daily basis from TV and the movies. We
   need Hollywood to take responsibility for its actions and stop
   peddling sex and violence to our young people.' I told Rosemary I
   agreed wholeheartedly and gave her my word that when I became
   president, I would demand accountability on the part of the
   entertainment industry. Would my [Democratic or Republican] opponent
   have said the same?"

   "The greatest thing a president can do is set an example for the
   people," Bush or Gore continued. "And as a devoted family man with a
   wonderful wife and [two or four] wonderful children, I promise to make
   the White House a place Americans can feel good about."

   The crowd erupted again, with thousands of delirious Republicans or
   Democrats waving signs reading, "America's Families For [Bush or
   Gore]" as a blizzard of red, white, and blue confetti fell from the
   ceiling.

   During his 30-minute victory speech, the president-elect also praised
   his campaign manager, Joe Allbaugh or Donna Brazile, for refusing to
   resort to the "negative smear tactics of my opponent."

   "Unlike my [Democratic or Republican] counterpart, my staff and I
   insisted that this election be about the issues," Bush or Gore said.
   "We refused to take the low road and stoop to dirty tricks in order to
   get elected. While [Mr. Gore or Mr. Bush] was busy with cheap innuendo
   and unfounded accusations, we were out there taking our message to the
   American people. And, judging from what happened today at the ballot
   box, you heard that message loud and clear. And I thank you."

   More confetti rained down from the ceiling, this time accompanied by
   balloons.

   Waving to acknowledge his supporters, the Ivy League graduate and
   scion of a political dynasty called for "a time of renewal and rebirth
   in America."

   "America has always been the land of promise and possibility," Bush or
   Gore said. "And never has that been more true than today. The
   opportunities that stand before us are great. The challenges are many.
   But I am energized by what lies ahead. Make no mistake, there is much
   work to be done. But we are more than up to the task. Remember that I
   am here to work for you, the people. Because you are the people who
   put me here. This is a fresh start. Our children are the future.
   America is ready for change. And new ideas. And a fresh start."


   CHULA VISTA, CA-Republican presidential candidate George W. Bush
   extended a hand of friendship to the nation's Hispanic community
   Monday, leaving a larger-than-customary tip for waiter Ramon Gonzalez
   after eating at La Galleria, a trendy Chula Vista bistro.

   [4]Enlarge Image Bush Reaches Out 

   Bush speaks during a campaign stop in Chula Vista, CA, where he
   courted Hispanics with a $20 tip.

   Bush-who was lunching with aide de camp Warren Hewitt and campaign
   contributor Kenneth Boehm, CEO of telecommunications giant Pacific
   Bell-left a $20 gratuity on a bill of $83.42. Working out to
   approximately 24 percent, it is the largest tip the Hispanic community
   has ever received from a Republican presidential candidate.

   Gonzalez, accepting Bush's generous overture on behalf of his people,
   thanked the candidate politely as he left the restaurant and invited
   him to visit again. Gonzalez said he intends to share the gift with
   other members of the Hispanic community, employing the standard
   food-service-industry split among waiter, busboy, and dishwasher.

   "This generous tip is my way of saying thank you to the Latino
   community for its distinguished service during the course of this
   lunch," Bush said. "It is my way of acknowledging the many valuable
   things America's Hispanics bring to the table-from appetizers to
   drinks to main courses-which are vital to the smooth progress of our
   nation's meals."

   Republican insiders are praising the gesture, noting that Bush has
   sent "a message of appreciation to a too-often-overlooked ethnic
   group."

     Bush Reaches Out jump1

   The overture to the Latino community.

   "By leaving a twenty on the table for this Mexican boy, Bush is
   telling Hispanics, 'I understand how hard your people have worked over
   the years to keep our water glasses full,'" GOP strategist Allen White
   said. "At the same time, by making this offering in tip form, he
   reinforces his campaign slogan of 'Prosperity With Purpose.' In other
   words, he sends the strong message that continued good service on the
   part of Hispanics will be recognized and rewarded."

   Despite such praise, Bush's rivals for the Republican presidential
   nomination were quick to denounce the unusually large gratuity.

   "I have always favored an across-the-board flat tip of 15 percent,
   regardless of the waiter's race," Steve Forbes said. "Gov. Bush's tip
   of 24 percent is not only fiscally irresponsible; it smacks of
   political grandstanding."

   Fellow Republican candidate John McCain was equally troubled by the
   precedent set by the Bush tip. "If we give the Hispanics 24 percent,"
   McCain said, "then the Asians will want 24 percent, too. Then the
   blacks. Then it snowballs out of control to the point where regular
   Americans suddenly can't afford to eat anywhere with table service,
   let alone get their cars detailed or their hedges trimmed. Gov. Bush
   has opened up a real Pandora's Box here."

   Speaking to reporters at a campaign stop at a tractor factory in
   Nashua, NH, Democratic presidential candidate Al Gore also had words
   for Bush.

     Bush Reaches Out jump2

   Waiter Ramon Gonzalez

   "Mr. Bush is trying to tip too little, too late," Gore said. "For
   years, he cheated the Hispanic community, calculating his tip by
   doubling the tax, even when dining in states where the restaurant tax
   is a mere six percent. Look at the record: He consistently undertipped
   Hispanics during his tenure as governor of Texas. And now he is trying
   to make up for all of that with a single $20 bill. My fellow
   Americans, I do not believe that, in his heart of hearts, Mr. Bush
   knows how much to tip."

   Gore later added that tipping should be "colorblind," reflecting only
   the quality of service received, and noted that many Hispanics are not
   waiters.

   Bush, while declining to respond specifically to his opponents'
   remarks, said he stands by his commitment to Hispanics.

   "As the fastest-growing ethnic group in America, Hispanics will
   continue to make their presence felt in all walks of restaurant life,"
   Bush said. "Whether you see them grinning while bringing the
   enchiladas at a Mexican restaurant or quietly and politely clearing
   the table at an expensive Italian eatery, I would urge all Americans
   to follow my lead and reach out to them with a couple of extra bucks."


   ALBANY, NY--In one of the most merciful disasters in recent years, a
   Greyhound bus traveling from Rochester to Albany, NY skidded into a
   ditch Tuesday, killing a dozen deadbeat fathers and penniless addicts,
   and putting nearly 20 more hapless bastards out of their misery.
   [4]Enlarge Image 

   Four of the degenerate sacks of shit who perished in the accident.

   According to Greyhound officials, the fatal crash occurred less than
   an hour after passengers gathered their pathetic belongings and
   dragged what little hope they had left onto the despair-soaked bus.
   Emergency crews called to the scene described the remains of the
   victims as "slightly more lifeless than they were before the
   accident."

   "This is by far the saddest thing I've ever witnessed," said head
   rescue worker Charles Rabnett, referring to the sea of fast-food
   wrappers, losing lottery tickets, and scorched corpses that littered
   the crash site. "We've done our best to contact family members and
   loved ones, but so far we've only been able to reach four parole
   officers and 10 AA sponsors."

   Added Rabnett: "Dear God, what a terrible waste of my time."

   While officials are still not sure what happened aboard the
   Albany-bound bus, a number of theories have been posited, including
   icy roads, low visibility due to fog, and the likelihood that the
   driver, Ron Jenkins, fell asleep at the wheel after spending a
   restless night consumed by his failures as a husband.

   Police investigators also suspect that the cause of the accident may
   have been as simple as "these luckless bastards getting shit on by the
   world one last time."
   [5]Enlarge Image 

   Rescue workers were visibly sickened by the number of hamburger
   wrappers and soda bottles strewn about the bus.

   "Dental records have helped identify only two-thirds of the
   casualties, as the remaining 10 passengers were discovered to have
   none of their original teeth left," Albany police chief Henry Goodwin
   said. "Among those, one is believed to have been a recently disowned
   teenage mother, the other an elderly widow forced to pawn her favorite
   necklace in order to purchase a bus ticket, and what appears to be the
   hollow shells of several middle-aged men."

   No survivors were reported following the accident. In addition,
   initial surveillance of the wreckage seems to indicate that those who
   managed to pull their world-weary bodies out of the overturned bus,
   gave up on their wretched existence within minutes. According to
   paramedics, it is likely that many of the casualties had suffered
   during the crash, and, if not then, for years earlier.

   "Thank heavens nobody made it," said chief paramedic John Thurston,
   who described the "disturbing smell" at the scene as a combination of
   gasoline, body odor, Aqua Velva, and relentless disappointment. "For a
   second there, I was worried I'd actually have to interact with some of
   these people."

   In response to the relative tragedy, Greyhound has agreed to donate
   $200 worth of rolled quarters and greasy, crumpled dollar bills they
   had collected as bus fare to a local charity. The casualties of the
   crash will also be memorialized with a small commemorative plaque that
   will hang at the Albany station, between an out-of-order vending
   machine and a set of bathrooms where customers can often be heard
   weeping.

   "It's hard to believe that something like this could even happen,"
   said Albany resident Carl Robinson, who, since losing his home to a
   fire earlier this month, has been sleeping in the city's dilapidated
   bus station. "To know that life, no matter how dreadful or hopeless,
   always has a chance of coming to an end--it's so inspiring."

   As of press time, hundreds of men and women had gathered at the site
   of the fatal accident to mourn the loss of a perfectly good bus.


   DEL MAR, CA-Despite strong personal reservations, Republican
   presidential contender George W. Bush confirmed Monday that he has
   "reluctantly" agreed to accept a $2 million donation from his parents
   "to help with some of the mounting expenses involved in running for
   office."

   [4]Enlarge Image Bush Reluctantly Accepts 

   Presidential hopeful George W. Bush is flanked by his mom and dad, who
   holds a check for him.

   "I didn't want to do it, as I have always prided myself on paying my
   own way," Bush told reporters during a campaign stop near San Diego.
   "Unfortunately, the increasing difficulty of competing with the Gore
   campaign's unlimited taxpayer war chest has forced me to accept some
   limited financial support."

   According to Bush 2000 spokesman Geoff Bahnsen, Bush has agreed to a
   one-time loan in the form of a check for $2 million, to help cover
   some of his travel and grocery expenses between now and November.
   Bahnsen stressed that the candidate will pay his parents back the full
   amount, plus interest, "just as soon as he gets back on his feet
   financially."

   Bush's acceptance of money from his parents to help defray campaign
   costs is said to be a severe blow to his pride. Since announcing his
   candidacy, the Texas governor has made a point of refusing all
   financial help from his well-to-do parents and their various friends
   and business associates.

   "For a self-made man like George W. to lower himself to accepting
   money from his family must have been very hard," said Kate O'Beirne,
   Washington editor for The National Review. "Here is a man who loathes
   the notion of privilege. However, this was a case where he had to be
   man enough to admit that he needed a little help. And, luckily, his
   parents were able to spare the $2 million."

   Throughout the race, Bush has paid for all his expenses out of pocket,
   supplementing his income with various "odd jobs" while on the campaign
   trail. Such self-sufficiency and insistence on personal fiscal
   responsibility is nothing new for the presidential hopeful.

   "Bootstrap" Bush, as he was affectionately known at Yale, first gained
   notoriety for his discipline and thrift while at the Ivy League
   school, paying his own way through by working as a prep cook at a New
   Haven-area diner. Several years later, after having donated his
   six-figure trust fund to charity, Bush won a low-income scholarship to
   Harvard Business School. He refused the money, however, insisting at
   the time that "working my way through school by doing night janitorial
   work is the best way for me to build character and learn the value of
   a dollar."

   In 1989, when his father and various business associates decided that
   the young George W. might want to try his hand at running a
   major-league baseball team, the younger Bush refused outside
   assistance, working a second job at a local convenience store for an
   entire summer to save up the $137 million he needed to buy the Texas
   Rangers.

   Similarly, he has steadfastly refused his father's offers to share in
   his oil holdings over the years, opting instead to prospect new sites
   and dig the oil wells himself.

   "By showing a little old-fashioned, Texas-style gumption and hard
   work, George W. has become a major oil baron in his own right,"
   Washington Post reporter Hanna Rosin said. "Sure, it would have been
   easier for him to ride his father's coattails to success, but that's
   not his way. George W. Bush is a proud man who doesn't believe in
   exploiting the considerable advantages with which he was born."

   For his part, Bush maintained that his decision to accept money from
   his mother and father is a one-time emergency measure.

     Bush Reluctantly Accepts jump

   The donation and the card in which it arrived.

   "I didn't become governor of Texas by using my family's wealth, power,
   and connections. I did it through hard work-selling Grit door-to-door,
   holding garage and yard sales, mowing lawns in the summertime, and
   raking leaves in the fall to get the money I needed to fund my
   campaign," Bush said at a car-wash fundraiser.

   "My family raised me right, teaching me that a little elbow grease and
   some perseverance are all I need to make my dreams come true,"
   continued Bush, pausing briefly to hose the suds off a 1992 Chevy
   Lumina. "Just because Dad helped me out with an extra $2 million
   doesn't mean I'm going to be living the high life on somebody else's
   dime."

   Members of Bush's campaign staff agreed.

   "You can bet you'll see him out there on the streets tomorrow morning
   as usual, broom in hand, sweeping off storefronts for $3 apiece, just
   like he always does," said Rev. Buford H. Lee, a retired Baptist
   minister and volunteer Bush 2000 campaign manager. "That's a man who,
   even when he hardly has enough fuel in his private jet to make a
   weekend campaign stop in Ohio, still finds it in his heart to take
   what little jet fuel he does have and give half of it to the Widow
   Sanderson down the way."

   The elder Bush echoed his son's down-to-earth approach.

   "There's no shame in accepting charity if, like my son, you are truly
   in need of securing victory in a presidential election," the former
   president said. "After all, we're all human beings, and we all need
   help sometimes."

   "But charity can only go so far," Bush continued. "My daddy taught me,
   as I in turn have taught my son, to always believe in starting your
   own motor. A man's got to get out there and pound the pavement if he
   expects to earn a decent, honest living and put food on the table for
   his family. That's just the Bush way."


   ELMHURST, IL--An adjustable butterfly fuck-swing once used by Nathan
   Moscone and Sofia Klein-Moscone to have wild and uninhibited sex in
   myriad aerial positions has been slowly filling up with junk mail over
   the past several months, the couple reported Monday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Butterfly Fuck 

   At one time, the young couple considered the butterfly fuck-swing to
   be their most precious possession. In recent years, however, it has
   been eclipsed in esteem by Nathan's leather briefcase and Sofia's
   emerald earrings.

   The dozens of credit card offers, coupon flyers, and unsolicited
   catalogs were first stacked in the butterfly fuck-swing in order to
   clear off the dining table for visiting relatives, but more mail
   gradually began to accumulate on the soft vinyl seat designed to
   cushion the rapid, percussive strokes of lovemaking.

   "The wife and I sure had some crazy times on that thing before we had
   the baby," said Nathan Moscone, 37, motioning towards the adult toy,
   upon which he had just hung his suit jacket. "But it seems like
   forever since I turned her upside down in that thing and dripped hot
   wax onto her vulva. Maybe we can give it another go after we finish
   the deck. That's taking up all my spare time at the moment."

   The butterfly fuck-swing features nylon straps, padded stirrups, a
   swiveling hook, a crossbar Klein-Moscone used to grasp in the throes
   of ecstasy, and, more recently, several unread issues of O, The Oprah
   Magazine.

   Moved from the couple's bondage room, now a nursery, to the den late
   last year, the fuck-swing ended up in an ideal location to deposit
   mail deemed too unimportant for the already full rolltop desk in the
   corner. Other items, such as a box of edible lubricants and an 18-inch
   steel-studded leather paddle, were relocated to the attic to keep them
   out of the reach of the Moscones' active and inquisitive 11-month-old
   daughter, Abby.

   Klein-Moscone, 33, said that she had considered simply throwing out
   the junk mail, but balked after the last time, when she accidently
   discarded an important medical bill that had been placed in the
   butterfly fuck-swing.

   "I swear I'll get to sorting out that mail soon," said Klein-Moscone,
   who less than two years ago would strap herself into the butterfly
   fuck-swing at her husband's slightest suggestion, but now only
   interacts with the sex apparatus when rummaging through it for a Home
   Depot receipt.

   In addition to raising a baby, Moscone said that working long hours,
   volunteering at their church, and doing yard work leaves him and his
   wife very little time to read their mail and enjoy exhilarating
   sadomasochistic fucking through unconventional methods.

   "I was just thinking yesterday, Boy, I can't remember the last time I
   had my fist up my wife's asshole,"  Moscone said. "It happens to every
   marriage, I guess."

   Also noticeably absent from the couple's sexual repertoire is the
   bright purple silicone butt plug that, for the past several weeks, has
   been the favorite chew toy of their Pomeranian, Champ.

   "I'd love to give those ankle and wrist restraints another go, but for
   the life of me I can't remember where they are," said Moscone about a
   set of chained leather cuffs that are currently being used to padlock
   a composting bin in the couple's backyard. "And I haven't seen hide
   nor hair of our cock rings since we were up in Lake Geneva. We'll have
   to get some new ones, I guess."

   "Well, as soon as the family budget allows for it," he added.

   Despite being forced to retire the nipple clamps after the baby
   started nursing, the pair said they would still consider having
   exciting and adventurous sex if Klein-Moscone ever returned home from
   her advanced Pilates class with any remaining energy.

   "Last Thursday, Nathan and I wanted to take his penis prison out of
   the shed to have a little bit of fun before Dateline," said
   Klein-Moscone, referring to a rubber locking male-chastity device.
   "But, my God, was that shed a mess--we ended up just sorting junk. At
   least I found our favorite ball gag, which I'm going to hang in the
   garage so I know how far to pull the minivan in."

   Both Moscones hope to get their once-hot sex life back into gear in
   the spring, pledging to make good use of a leather hood and spreader
   bar when they try for another baby.


   BEIJING--In an attempt to assure the world's children that the
   millions of Chinese-made toys currently being recalled for containing
   toxic lead paint and tiny choking hazards can no longer hurt them,
   high-level Chinese officials announced Tuesday that millions of
   playthings are being rounded up and immediately put to death.
   [4]Enlarge Image Chinese Authorities 

   Suspected lead- paint-tainted Barbie dolls face firing squads in
   China.

   "We are committed to the well-being of children and putting the
   consumer's mind at ease," said Chinese president Hu Jintao at a press
   conference. "Boys and girls of the world, you need not worry. Your
   toys will be executed swiftly and harshly. When we are through, there
   will be nothing left to play with."

   In the past six weeks, Mattel Inc. has recalled more than 20 million
   toys from China that are believed to contain lead paint and other
   safety defects, a situation that prompted the Chinese government to
   send People's Liberation Army forces into major industrial sectors to
   mercilessly slaughter any remaining items that have not been exported
   for sale overseas. So far, an estimated 9 to 10 million toys, from
   anonymous dolls and miniature cars to trademarked characters such as
   Thomas the Tank Engine, Curious George, and Big Bird have been
   reportedly kicked, smashed with rifles, shocked with electric batons,
   hanged, and pounded with nails, before having their ears severed and
   eyes gouged out, and then being shot.

   "Believe me when I say you can sleep peacefully tonight," said Hu, who
   reportedly gave troops direct orders to force thousands upon thousands
   of Polly Pocket dolls to their knees, point assault rifles at the
   backs of their heads, and blow their toxin-filled skulls to bits. "We
   wish to reassure the world that we are taking care of this problem. We
   shall serve the young people."

   Chinese toy manufacturers are reportedly complying with the
   government's wishes. According to the Xinhua News Agency, in the past
   three days alone, factory owners roused an estimated 365,000 Barbie
   dolls from their dream homes in a violent series of raids. During
   these raids, the Barbies were separated from their Kens, were stripped
   naked, and had their heads shaved. They were then taken to an
   undisclosed area, leaned against a wall because they were incapable of
   standing under their own power, and shot by a firing squad as toy
   soldiers were forced to watch.

   "We are assisting the authorities in destroying toys," said Chen Hai,
   a senior manager at Joy Sing Industrial Plastics Co., a supplier
   contracted by several major American toy companies. "This is not all
   talk. We invite any concerned American parents to come here and tour
   our toy torture chambers to see the toys' agony for themselves."

   Chen added that, as a precaution, the factory also executed 5,000
   workers.

   A toy-abuse-monitoring group, the Association for the Advancement of
   Plastic People (AAPP), said it has gathered evidence suggesting that
   the Chinese government has also detained an additional 20 million toys
   for questioning. According to the group, even toys that contained only
   trace levels of lead paint were loaded onto trains bound for detention
   centers in remote provinces of Western China, where they were
   allegedly deprived of sleep, burned with cigarettes, and subjected to
   traditional Chinese water torture.

   The AAPP also released video smuggled from an unidentified detention
   center showing Chinese intelligence officers attempting to extract
   information on the whereabouts of suspected lead-tainted toys from a
   Little Mommy Real Loving Baby Doll, despite the fact that she was
   capable only of asking for her bottle and playing peek-a-boo. The
   gruesome footage shows the doll's eyes being forcibly taped open and
   her lack of genitals being melted with a soldering iron.

   News of the crackdown is being received favorably by parents'
   organizations in the U.S.

   "We're pleased the Chinese government is taking such an active and
   serious approach to the safety of toys," said Annelise Bow, director
   of the Brooklyn, NY---based organization Our Children Come First. "We
   hope that in the future any potential uprisings among dangerous
   playthings coming out of China will be crushed before they can spread
   to our toyboxes."

   Minister of Commerce Bo Xilai said he hoped the mass toy-purges would
   "send a strong message to our enemies who threaten to harm us with
   their dangerous chemical compounds."

   "Only by flaying Elmo's lethal skin, and wrenching Dora the Explorer's
   deadly limbs from her sockets and publicly displaying her body parts
   can we effectively warn toys never to jeopardize the livelihood of the
   people," Bo said.

   Government officials, however, still refused to confirm the
   whereabouts of Thomas the Tank Engine, rumored to have been splintered
   into pieces by attack dogs in Manchuria. Nor would it address
   allegations that hundreds of toy steam shovels in Guangdong Province
   were forced to dig their own graves before they were executed.


   DETROIT--Violent decapitations and permanent paralysis due to severing
   of the spinal cord are among the reasons cited by the Chrysler
   Corporation for its decision to recall all '97 automobiles containing
   the "neckbelts" safety feature.

   [4]Enlarge Image Chrysler Halts Production Of Neckbelts 

   Passengers in a '97 Chrysler LeBaron wear neckbelts, which were
   recalled Monday for causing explosive decapitations, launching
   victims' severed heads through windshields at upwards of 200 mph.

   "In the case of collision, it would appear that the neckbelts have a
   detrimental effect on overall passenger safety," read a statement
   released by the company Monday.

   The recall, the most expensive in Chrysler's history, goes into effect
   early next week. In the meantime, the company is advising all
   motorists who use the neck belts to maintain a defensive driving
   stance at all times, as accidents may result in "crushed trachea,
   severe spinal and/or brain damage, and, in the most severe cases,
   sudden defenestration of the head area, as the entire region above the
   neck separates from the upper body, flying at tremendous speed through
   the breakaway glass of the windshield, rolling several yards into the
   street directly in front of the car," the Chrysler press release
   stated.

   The neckbelts were developed with passenger safety in mind, say
   Chrysler spokespersons. "Our research showed that one of the biggest
   risks to motorists is the danger of passengers sustaining head
   injuries by striking the dashboard or the seat in front of them as
   their bodies are flung forward during a crash," Chrysler safety
   designer Robert McArdle said. "Our thinking was that by immobilizing
   the head and neck, this type of injury would decrease significantly."

   The belts, McArdle said, were also intended to reduce the neck stress
   associated with whiplash. "Unfortunately, it appears that we were
   erroneous in this analysis as well," he added. "Even minor
   fender-benders seem to cause motorists wearing neckbelts to have their
   entire heads forcibly ripped from their torsos, landing in the front
   seat to the shocked screams of terrified onlookers."

   Another negative side effect of the neckbelts is the psychological
   damage that may be suffered by eyewitnesses upon observing a
   convulsing, headless human body spontaneously jettison fountains of
   blood as the adrenaline-maximized heart furiously pumps quart after
   quart from the neck wound, coating the car interior, the Chrysler
   statement continued.

   Neckbelt wearers are warned that a severed human head may remain alive
   for up to two minutes before blood loss, oxygen starvation and shock
   trauma cause it to lose consciousness.

   "Brain death is something science still knows very little about," said
   Chrysler safety engineer Tom Savini, "but drivers should take note
   that law enforcement personnel have reported observing bouncing,
   rolling severed heads blinking their eyes and gasping for air as if
   attempting to speak minutes after separation from the torso on more
   than one occasion."

   Savini said that such still-alive severed human heads "probably live
   out their last moments in a state of unimaginable agony," and urged
   caution on the part of drivers who wear the neckbelt device.

   In addition to decapitation and paralysis, some consumer advocates
   have complained that the neckbelt safety devices inhibit side-to-side
   motion of the head, causing drivers to swerve wildly back and forth in
   order to maintain a clear view of the street. Other negative side
   effects cited include difficulty in breathing, eating and talking.

   In the wake of industry-wide concern about the safety of the
   neckbelts, Chrysler is also reexamining the so-called "shrapnelizing"
   explosive dashboard which became a standard safety option on all new
   models in 1995.

   "By splintering into literally thousands of rapidly spinning jagged
   fragments, which ricochet around the car's interior at tremendous
   speeds, tearing any living tissue inside to shreds in seconds, these
   dashboards may represent a significant safety risk to motorists," read
   a report submitted to CEO Robert Eaton by a Chrysler safety
   engineering team.

   Many observers are comparing the Chrysler recall to the controversy
   surrounding the 1976 Ford Pinto, the economy-model compact which, when
   rear-ended, ignited its fuel tanks and became doused in flaming
   gasoline, causing passengers to ineffectually pound on the windows and
   scream as they were burned alive at superheated temperatures within,
   before exploding as a bomb does.


   WASHINGTON--In testimony before a special panel on domestic safety
   Tuesday, officials at the Central Intelligence Agency revealed that
   the U.S. may have anywhere between one and three unidentified secret
   admirers currently longing for the country.
   [4]Enlarge Image 

   President Bush contemplates whether to take truth or dare at a special
   late-night meeting with the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

   "We face a new and disturbing reality: There are people out there who
   love us, and they're coming after us," said a blushing John Michael
   McConnell, director of national intelligence. "We currently have no
   leads as to who exactly has targeted the U.S. for its affections, but
   we can be certain our admirer's feelings are real and not going away
   anytime soon. I strongly urge all Americans to be incredibly flattered
   but cautious."

   According to McConnell, the CIA received credible heart-shaped
   intelligence taped to the door of the agency's headquarters in early
   September, alerting them to an unspecified number of nations that
   might be harboring fondness for the United States. After being held to
   the chests of high-ranking CIA officials for a classified length of
   time, the note was subjected to a battery of forensic tests, as were
   the chocolates and single red rose that accompanied it. After six days
   of examination, however, analysts were unable to find a name on the
   card's pink, glittered surface.

   President Bush was reportedly informed of the situation in excited
   whispers.

   "I assure you, the full resources of your government are being
   utilized to track down any and all persons who may have special
   feelings for our great nation," McConnell said. "If this information
   were to fall into the wrong hands, it would be absolutely
   humiliating."

   Intelligence officers were able to narrow the original field of 190
   suspects to a more manageable 47, including Egypt, the European Union,
   and Antoine Martin, a 36-year-old tennis instructor from Monte Carlo.
   The agency also stepped up surveillance on Mexico and Canada, the two
   countries the CIA considers closest to the United States.
   [5]Enlarge Image 

   A CIA-generated map highlights potential hot spots of romantic
   activity from around the globe.

   "We've always had a certain, well, tension with Russia, so we asked
   our most trusted field operatives to ask their most trusted field
   operatives if they maybe liked America, but so far the country has
   proven both uncooperative and bashful," said one unnamed CIA source,
   who confirmed that all intelligence-gathering operations in the
   Scandinavian countries were terminated after it was determined they
   were "out of [the U.S.'s] league." "Then Spain told us they had
   information as to who the admirer is, but unfortunately they have been
   sworn to secrecy."

   The unnamed source added, "With our luck, it's probably Kyrgyzstan."

   At an emergency sleepover session of Congress, lawmakers passed a $750
   million appropriations bill to strengthen law enforcement presence at
   all major U.S. ports. The measure would dispatch more than 15,000
   police officers to the nation's borders to inspect any boats
   transporting large quantities of perfume or jewelry, as well as any
   barges carrying suspiciously heartfelt poetry.

   Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi personally pledged her support in
   finding the secret admirers, offering to make multiple diplomatic
   visits to Japan to assess the country's possible involvement and
   potential interest in the upcoming Modest Mouse show.

   "Until we have more information about who we are dealing with and
   whether or not they are gross, all precautions must be taken to
   prevent a harmless crush from escalating into full-scale infatuation,"
   Pelosi said, clutching a brief compiled by aides on which she had
   drawn a heart around the words "Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda."

   Although sources at the agency report none of the top secret,
   encrypted messages passed to visiting dignitaries have been returned
   with "yes" boxes checked, they remain hopeful they will be able to
   root out all smitten parties and avoid any potentially awkward moments
   at the United Nations.

   "I've said it all along: It's Africa," McConnell said. "They're always
   asking us for aid and inviting us to world health summits. I think
   it's pretty clear that they've been wanting to get our attention for
   some time."


   BURBANK, CA--Universal Studios joined DreamWorks SKG, Sony Pictures,
   Warner Bros., Paramount, and Fox Monday, when CEO Ron Meyer announced
   that the company is shutting down operations and ceasing all film
   production, effective immediately.
   [4]Enlarge Image Citing Slow Summer Box Office, Hollywood Calls It
   Quits 

   Demolition begins on a Hollywood landmark.

   "In their hearts, every studio chair would like to be a patron of the
   arts," said a candid and reflective Meyer, speaking from his New York
   office on the 69th floor of Manhattan's Rockefeller Plaza. "But this
   is a business, not an artists' charity ward."

   According to Hollywood insiders, summer 2005 dealt the death blow to
   an already ailing industry. With box-office receipts 9 percent lower
   than those of 2004, the few successes, such as The 40-Year-Old Virgin
   and War Of The Worlds, could not carry the industry.

   Regarding the decision to liquidate Paramount, Viacom CEO Sumner
   Redstone said, "It was a simple choice: cling to an outdated business
   model or cut the pictures loose."

   To better protect their stockholders' interests, Hollywood will be
   shifting its focus to safer, more reliable profit models, including
   real estate, life insurance, and the sale of hygiene products.

   Said Meyer: "The mortuary industry also seems like a good bet. No
   matter what happens in the economy, there's always a market for
   funeral homes. People are always dying. That doesn't go unpredictably
   out of fashion with the public's taste, like, say, historical costume
   epics or Russell Crowe."

   Monday, construction crews quietly dismantled the storied Hollywood
   Walk of Fame.

   "This is a real shame," said foreman Kevin McKnight, directing members
   of his crew to pry the brass stars from Hollywood Boulevard and
   transfer them to a nearby freight crate destined for a Japanese
   smelting plant. "I love movies. My whole family does. All my life, I
   loved movies."

   With each studio's decision to cease operations, dozens of films in
   various stages of production will quietly die, some going to DVD,
   others disappearing entirely, amounting to little more than tax
   write-offs. Assets are being sold for pennies on the dollar, and
   hastily liquidated prop houses and set rooms have flooded an already
   deluged eBay resale market. An original Indiana Jones flight jacket
   was sold Tuesday for $1.49 plus shipping.

   Figures from the California Labor Department reflect the industry's
   sudden collapse. As of Tuesday, some 700 directors, 15,000 producers,
   2,900 entertainment lawyers, 14,000 writers, and 72,000 actors--not to
   mention countless gaffers, tour guides, production designers,
   publicists, souvenir sellers, and personal assistants--were reportedly
   out of work.
   [5]Enlarge Image Citing Slow Summer Box Office, Hollywood Calls It
   Quits 

   Mel Gibson begs for work on Wilshire Boulevard in Los Angeles.

   "I feel a little betrayed," said Stealth director Rob Cohen. "After
   the summer season ended, I had hoped that people would start coming
   back to theaters, or maybe the industry would cook up some new
   concepts."

   Cohen added: "Now it looks like I'll have to go back to directing TV
   ads."

   "I don't know how my family will get by without a steady source of
   income," said 43-year-old Los Angeles resident Kirk Ferguson, a
   third-generation set carpenter. "Making facades that get blown up is
   all I know."

   The absence of films is creating a ripple effect far beyond Southern
   California. Movie ushering has become an obsolete trade overnight, as
   first-run theaters shut down, convert to loft apartment space, and
   force hundreds of thousands of adolescents into the already crowded
   lawn-mowing and car-washing professions.

   "A lot of movie history was made on the Warner Bros. lot, but not a
   lot of money," Warner Bros. CEO Barry Meyer said. "We've been sitting
   on valuable land at the height of a booming real-estate market. We
   could have sold it off months ago instead of making Must Love Dogs. We
   acted irresponsibly, and for this I apologize to our stockholders."

   With little hope of getting a job in Hollywood, ex-film-industry
   employees are understandably reacting with anger and despair. Some,
   however, are more philosophical.

   "I can always go back to Wisconsin and tend bar," actor Mark Ruffalo
   said. "Maybe do some community theater. The folks you should really
   feel sorry for are Jack Nicholson and Tom Cruise. They're fucking
   nuts. I have no idea what they'll do without Hollywood."

   The void is not likely to remain for long, with heavy hitters such as
   Bollywood producer Aamir Khan ready to swoop in.

   "We are very excited to be entering the American entertainment
   market," Khan said. "Our first release, timed to coincide with the
   American holiday entertainment rush, is a remake of Mahabharata, a
   five-hour retelling of the ancient Hindu epic, filled with thrilling
   synchronized dance numbers and much romance."


   WASHINGTON, DC--In what observers are calling a "radically intense"
   move, President Clinton unveiled a new "No Fear" foreign policy
   approach Monday, stating that in the future, nations dealing with the
   U.S. should "Bring Your Spine Or Ride The Pine."

   [4]Enlarge Image Clinton Adopts New 'No Fear' Foreign Policy 

   President Clinton, sporting a new haircut and neon green Zubaz pants,
   told reporters, "There is no crying in foreign policy--shut up and
   negotiate."

   "America is, quite simply, In It To Win It," a visibly pumped Clinton
   told the assembled international press. "While this administration
   remains committed to maintaining good relations with our allies
   abroad, that's not going to stand in the way of the fact that It's Not
   Whether You Win Or Lose, It's How Bad You Beat The Other Team."

   Upon finishing his speech, Clinton vaulted over the podium and
   sprinted to the new Air Force One, a neon orange and purple Chevy Brat
   sports pickup with Tazmanian Devil mudflaps and an adhesive decal
   prominently displayed in the rear window, reading, "Clint Force
   One--All The Way With Hell To Pay." He then sped off to a D.C.-area
   shopping mall parking lot before his stunned audience could reply.

   Reports that the pickup had electric light-up neon displays around the
   license plates could not be confirmed at press time.

   "In foreign policy, Second Place Is The First Loser," the president
   said in a nationally televised speech on ESPN2 Monday night. Sporting
   wraparound multi-colored mirrored sunglasses, Clinton added, "The
   United States of America Is Agile, Mobile, Hostile, and Completely
   Fearless. No Fear!" He then grunted, striking a muscle-flexing pose
   before challenging embattled Russian President Boris Yeltsin to a
   "no-holds barred, flat-out motocross mud run," advising the Russian
   premier to "Shut Up and Hit The Dirt."

   Another aspect of the new "No Fear" policy is the requirement that all
   international treaties and other diplomatic documents be printed in
   oversized "distressed-type"-style lettering, and stored for safe
   keeping in bright green and yellow "fanny packs."

   Further, all U.S. ambassadors will be required to wear "long-in-back,
   buzzed-on-top" haircuts and attend formal diplomatic events wearing
   baggy, weightlifter-style Zubaz pants, preferably neon green or
   magenta ones, the State Department said.

   "I believe that by dressing in such an intense manner, our ambassadors
   will send a strong 'Don't Mess With The U.S.' message to foreign
   diplomats," Clinton said. "If their diplomats come dressed in B.U.M.
   Equipment gear, we will come in No Fear. If they wear Generra
   Hypercolor, we will respond with Big Johnson. The U.S. will not be
   cowed."

   Clinton added that "the United States government has Been There,
   Wrecked That."

   In addition to dress code changes, in the future, foreign policy
   strategy meetings will no longer be held at the State Department
   Building, but instead will take place at "The Quarry," an abandoned
   D.C.-area mining site where government officials convene out of the
   backs of their trucks "tailgate-style." A favorite Clinton
   administration hangout, the Quarry is where aspiring officials are
   often called upon to "prove their stuff" by diving off the uppermost
   point of "Panic Peak" into the swimming hole at the Quarry's base, an
   experience Secretary of Labor Robert Reich describes as "110 percent
   pure adrenaline overdrive, baby!"

   "At 200 mph there is no diplomatic immunity," Clinton said,
   reiterating the new American stance. "If foreign interests mess with
   the bull they can expect the horns. We have no room for crybabies in
   the emergent global economy. Bones heal, records don't. Eat my dust!"
   The president then floored it.

   Foreign reaction to the new No Fear policy has been mixed.

   Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo said, "It is of great concern to
   Mexico to suddenly be so close to a nation that is so--how do you
   say?--'balls out.' I am afraid."

   German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, on the other hand, has already
   responded with a gift to the president of an original vinyl copy of
   Boston's self-titled debut LP, originally owned by his older brother.
   The president is said to be pleased with the gesture, saying that
   Boston kicks ass.

   "Dudes, can you see it? My mustache is coming in," Clinton said in
   conclusion. "What a chick magnet that'll be."

   Confiscated Patriots

   NEW YORK--The hundreds of hours of game and practice scouting
   videotapes that league officials seized from the New England Patriots
   also include over 100 hours of painstakingly thorough footage of
   Patriots quarterback Tom Brady in the shower, sources within the NFL
   competition committee confirmed Tuesday.

   "We are still investigating whether the assembled shower footage of
   Brady soaped up and wreathed in steam--which I can personally confirm
   was in fact taken in the showers of several different NFL-affiliated
   facilities around the league, and appears to have been shot by head
   coach Belichick himself--constitutes a violation of league laws or
   policies," league spokesman Greg Aiello told reporters during a press
   conference held at the league's Manhattan offices. "It is the opinion
   of the commissioner and the league that further extensive study is
   required before any judgment can be rendered in this matter."

   "Our investigation continues to focus on any instances of cheating by
   the New England Patriots, and will continue to focus on cheating no
   matter how much Brady showering footage we find," Aiello added.

   Aiello then displayed a 25-minute composite videotape consisting of
   representative segments and "highlights" of Brady in the shower.

   Analysts agree that the bulk of the shower footage, while certainly
   unusual in many aspects, seems to have been shot with Brady's full
   knowledge and cooperation, although Brady does not appear especially
   enthusiastic. Early footage is also said to include showering
   quarterback Drew Bledsoe, then the Patriots starting quarterback, and
   at least 25 minutes of the earliest-known material was evidently shot
   in the showers at the University of Michigan as Brady was being
   scouted for the draft.

   "Belichick has always been a big believer in spending as much time as
   possible on film study," said Boston Globe football writer Bill Ryan,
   who as a regular Patriots reporter was given the opportunity to view
   outtakes from several of the Brady shower tapes, notably those labeled
   "Super Bowl XXXVI," "Camp 2002/Skeleton Drills," and "Tuck Rule"
   before being thoroughly questioned by league officials. "But I didn't
   know he'd shot so much of it himself. His intensity about it can be
   kind of frightening."

   "To hear Belichick narrating the whole thing, pointing out his
   quarterback's tendencies, identifying Brady's strong points and the
   areas where he needs work, hearing his voice as a counterpoint to the
   sound of the hot running water and seeing that familiar
   sweatshirt-clad arm cut through the mist to hand Brady his towels--you
   realize the man has a unique football mind," said Sports Illustrated
   football correspondent Paul Zimmerman. "If nothing else, the attention
   to every significant detail definitely makes an impression on the
   viewer."

   Although officials have not divulged whether other Patriots players or
   even quarterbacks from other teams were featured in their own
   showering videotapes, Aiello confirmed that the investigation was by
   no means complete and the total inventory may take weeks to assemble.

   "We confiscated thousands of these tapes from the Patriots coaching
   staff," Aiello told reporters, "and hundreds more tapes showing
   nothing but opposing teams sending in offensive and defensive signals.
   It may be some time before we have a complete catalog of what's on
   them. I can confirm, however, that we will be questioning Mr. Brady at
   length about his experiences regarding showering and video cameras,
   and communicating daily with Coach Belichick and team owner Robert
   Kraft concerning any and all videotaped footage of NFL players,
   specifically Tom Brady, in the shower. You have my word on that."

   Neither Belichick nor Brady would comment on the investigation. The
   New England Patriots organization did not respond to requests for
   information, but released a statement Wednesday morning confirming
   that the league had compensated the team and coach for $750,000 in
   exchange for the videotapes in question.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Washington police seized 22 members of the House of
   Representatives, 12 members of the Senate, and more than 100 fighting
   cocks Monday night, in the latest crackdown on blood sports at the
   highest levels of the U.S. government.

   [4]Enlarge Image 34 Congressmen Arrested In D.C. Cockfighting
   Crackdown 

   Congressmen Don Nickles (R-OK), Charles Schumer (D-NY), Dick Gephardt
   (D-MO), and John Lewis (D-GA) minutes before their arrest.

   "At 1 o'clock this morning, uniformed officers, acting on tips from
   undercover operatives, staged simultaneous raids on four known beltway
   pits, arresting a large bipartisan coalition of legislative
   cockfighting enthusiasts," D.C. police chief Charles H. Ramsey told
   reporters Tuesday. "Of course, we were aware of the longstanding
   cockfighting problem, but we were shocked to catch so many highly
   placed lawmakers in the act of betting on, training, and selling
   fighting birds--or, in the case of [Rep.] Tammy Baldwin [D-WI],
   operating back-alley clubs."

   A full report of evidence gathered in the raids will be issued later
   this week, but police have released certain facts, including details
   about a breeding network for elite fighting cocks--prized for their
   extreme aggressiveness and high pain threshold--run by members of the
   House Judiciary Committee. Undercover officers said they witnessed
   committee members selling birds to other congressmen for hundreds of
   dollars apiece.

   Evidence also included photos of congressional motor-pool limousines
   that had been converted into "crating trucks" to transport cocks from
   venue to venue. Perhaps most stunning of all were the firsthand
   sightings of cocks, their crests and wattles surgically removed, being
   trained to fight with blades tied to their natural spurs in a 400-bird
   "hardening pen" in the basement of the Old Executive Office Building,
   just blocks away from the White House.

   Detective William Gargano of the D.C. vice squad was present for the
   previous evening's raid on El Pollo Diablo, a cockfighting pit located
   among several blocks of abandoned warehouses in southeast D.C.

   "I was there shooting undercover video when detectives and
   animal-control operatives, working in a combined task force, busted
   down all the doors to the place at once," Gargano said. "It had
   already been shaping up to be one hell of a night. [Sen. Dick] Lugar
   [R-IN] was a few hundred dollars ahead in the pit. His famous Stag
   Hammer just couldn't lose. Well, that didn't sit well with [Sen.]
   Hillary Clinton [D-NY], who accused him of giving his bird ginger and
   amphetamine suppositories to make it fight harder."

   Continued Gargano: "Then [Sen. Dianne] Feinstein [D-CA] tried to suck
   her rooster's punctured lung clear so it could last a whole match, but
   she swallowed too much blood and puked everywhere. [Supreme Court
   Justice David] Souter had just broken up a fight between [Rep.] Mark
   Kennedy [R-MN] and [Rep. Jim] Oberstar [D-MN], after they knocked the
   damn carcass barrel all over the floor. When the raid happened, I was
   relieved. It was getting pretty dicey in there."

   The raids themselves were carried out with minimal resistance. Only
   Sen. John Edwards (D-NC) needed to be restrained and charged with
   resisting arrest.

   [5]Enlarge Image 34 Congressmen Arrested In D.C. Cockfighting
   Crackdown jump 

   Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) inspects fighting birds during a cock-buying
   trip to Tibet.

   Ramsey said that, though formal charges have yet to be filed, the
   congressmen taken into custody will most likely be charged with
   illegal gambling, animal cruelty, and collusion. Nearly all of the
   arrested cockfighting enthusiasts are out of jail after posting bail.
   However, not one of the arrested parties, even those who were not
   elected officials, has agreed to speak openly to reporters.

   One legislator who asked not to be identified said the charges were
   "petty," and that the indicted members of Congress were victims of a
   "witch-hunt."

   "Although violent, cockfighting is a traditional part of the American
   lawmaker's way of life," the legislator said. "It's a sport, with a
   code of conduct the uninitiated simply wouldn't understand. I'm sure
   many of the good people of Oklahoma, hypothetically speaking, would
   agree that there's a place for different people's tastes in this great
   country. As far as the cruelty charges go, that's ludicrous. I love my
   fighting cocks--my wife likes to say I treat my champion red-eyes
   better than I treat her--and I'm sure my fellow Congressmen would say
   much the same."

   As troubling as the mere existence of a legislative cockfighting ring
   may be, lawmakers who were not implicated in the scandal say they are
   more disturbed by evidence that legislation has been derailed,
   altered, or passed based on successes and failures in the cockfighting
   pit.

   "One week, the Civic Funding for Secondary Education Act is dead in
   the water, with no compromise on the horizon," Sen. John McCain (R-AZ)
   said. "The very next week, 12 Democrats turn over on their votes. I
   heard strange rumors that some hefty debt to the Senate Republicans
   was just erased--something involving '10-to-1 odds on a one-eyed Rhode
   Island Red.' It didn't make sense until this morning, when I flipped
   on the news and saw all these same senators getting cuffed at the
   rooster pit in a basement off Constitution."

   "Now that I think about it, this may explain why the Chicken Feed
   Price Stabilization Act passed through the House so quickly last
   month," McCain added.


   NEW YORK--Veteran New York City construction worker Lonnie Barbierri
   may, on the exterior, seem like the tough-guy type. But as any woman
   who has ever strolled past a building site where he was working can
   attest, under that rough exterior lies a sensitive side. No matter how
   busy he is, Barbierri always takes time to make sure the ladies know
   that he is interested, available, and ready for romance. And though he
   remains single after countless attempts to meet that special someone,
   Barbierri still believes that true love is within his grasp.
   [4]Enlarge Image Construction Worker 

   "Working the high steel" affords Barbierri a unique vantage point--"a
   bird's-eye view on love"--that allows him to see straight down a lot
   of chicks' shirts.

   "A lot of guys are afraid to make themselves vulnerable by revealing
   their emotions, but when I meet someone I'm interested in, I express
   how I feel--usually by saying something like 'Hey! You want a piece of
   this?'" said Barbierri, grabbing his crotch, grunting, and
   rhythmically thrusting his pelvis forward. "I figure you've got to put
   yourself out there. If you can't open up to a woman, she'll never have
   any way of knowing how much you want to give her the high hard one."

   "Deep down, I'm just a hopeless romantic," he added.

   Calling every woman special in her own way, Barbierri explained that
   he always tries to touch upon the individual qualities of each woman
   he greets. For example, if she happens to be drinking something
   through a straw, he'll ask if she wants something else to suck on. If
   she seems to be in a hurry, he'll ask where the fire is, and then
   subtly suggest that it may be, in fact, in his pants. And if her
   nipples are visibly poking through her shirt, he'll inquire if she is
   cold, and gallantly offer to warm those beauties up for her.

   "If I see a great pair of cans, I say so,"  said Barbierri, working on
   the twelfth floor of a future condominium complex on Manhattan's Upper
   East Side. "Who knows? She could be the one, and if I let my shyness
   get in the way, I might miss out forever on the chance to meet the
   girl of my dreams. I don't want to go through the rest of my life
   wondering whether fries do come with that shake."

   Despite Barbierri's disarming friendliness, personal warmth, and
   inviting "Sit on My Face" chest tattoo, virtually no women pedestrians
   are receptive to him. In fact, on the day Barbierri was interviewed,
   the female passersby invariably increased their pace, stared silently
   ahead, and avoided eye contact with the ironworker. To Barbierri's
   credit, he didn't let the string of rejections derail his positive
   outlook.

   "The right girl--the one who'll one day slice me off a serving of that
   sweet stuff and bring it straight home to Daddy--is out there,
   somewhere," he said. "New York's a big town, you know? And as long as
   I keep yelling 'nice rack' at all the hot pieces of ass out here on
   the sidewalk, I have faith that one of them will respond. Maybe even
   flash me the cooze."

   And despite his traditional Italian Catholic upbringing, Barbierri has
   never been one to allow race, creed, or color to stand in the way of
   his appreciation of beauty.

   "Hey, check out the Asian broad with the briefcase!" he said, spotting
   another potential life partner. "I wouldn't mind feeding her some beef
   chow mein, know what I'm saying? Yo, Tokyo Rose! You speakee dee
   Engrish? Me love you long time, baby!"

   Yet Barbierri doesn't base his judgments on surface appearances.
   Though admitting that some women whom he initiates contact with are
   "not that hot," all women, he said, have something about them that is
   beautiful.

   "I don't care if she's a triple-bagger-- everybody deserves a
   compliment now and then," he said. "That's the God-honest truth.
   Besides, some of the ugly ones might still have great legs, or a hot
   ass. Just because their faces could stop a train, that don't mean they
   can't give great head or appreciate a hot beef injection."

   It remains to be seen whether Barbierri, who turned 47 in April, will
   ever meet his soul mate. But if his optimism and enthusiasm provide an
   insight into his true character, Barbierri is quite the catch.

   "The important thing is to keep the lines of dialogue open," he said.
   "With women, communication is everything."


   January saw the passing of 78-year-old Coretta Scott King, widow of
   slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., and with it, the
   end of the FBI's around-the-clock phone surveillance of Mrs. King.
   [4]Enlarge Image Coretta Scott R 

   "After Mrs. King's death, the Bureau determined that the threat she
   posed to American security was significantly minimized to the point
   that the wiretapping should not continue," said Charles Torcello,
   special agent in charge of the FBI's Coretta Scott King surveillance
   unit.

   The FBI had monitored King since 1955, when her husband, Rev. Martin
   Luther King Jr., first gained the attention of law-enforcement
   officials by leading the Montgomery bus boycott against segregation in
   public mass transit.

   "Our vigilance paid off for America, even if it wasn't always pretty
   to witness an old woman slowly deteriorate," said Torcello, who
   admitted to a grudging respect for King, calling her "in many ways a
   subversive member of my own family."

   "She was a dedicated and admirable enemy," Torcello added.

   Torcello's view was widely shared by members of the FBI King unit,
   some of whom traveled to her Feb. 7 funeral service in Lithonia, GA,
   and discreetly parked their unmarked van behind the the church.

   "From what we could pick up, it was a beautiful service," said Agent
   Joyce Mallory, who had spied on King for nearly two decades. "We'll
   all miss her, but at least we'll still have thousands and thousands of
   taped transcriptions to remember her by."

   Other agents assigned to the King unit had their own memories of
   her. Some reminisced about using high-tech listening devices to gather
   information on the exact dates King was having her carpets cleaned, or
   on the locations of church functions she had organized. Nearly all
   agreed that the eavesdropping on a secret recipe for cornbread was one
   of the most valuable pieces of information garnered from the program.

   The FBI said that the four $78.2 million geosynchronous surveillance
   satellites that were used to watch King will be turned over to the
   unit monitoring the activities of rapper Kanye West's mother, Dr.
   Donda West.


   ALDERWINE, MO--Cracker Barrel CEO Michael Woodhouse announced Tuesday
   that the restaurant and retail chain would expand to a new location
   out by Highway 18, near the Harmon Road turnoff.
   [4]Enlarge Image Cracker Barrel Sign 

   The sign for the Cracker Barrel down by the ball fields

   "At Cracker Barrel, our mission is to give our customers hearty,
   all-American food and old license plates on the walls to look at while
   they eat," said Woodhouse, gesturing toward a scale model of the
   future restaurant, which is the same model used for all new location
   announcements. "That's why we're proud to announce our newest
   location, just up a ways past the Flying J."

   The new location will be the fourth Cracker Barrel in town, fifth if
   you count the one half a mile from the city limits where the dirt
   track speedway used to be.

   The decision to build one, Woodhouse said, was based on months of
   extensive internal research indicating that people around here like to
   eat, like to drive, and are willing to drive to eat.

   "Our data showed that folks driving north out of town might like a
   Cracker Barrel in the immediate area," Woodhouse said. "I always said
   there should be one out that way anyhow, so no matter which direction
   you're heading out, you can always stop at a Cracker Barrel."

   The new restaurant puts Cracker Barrel on track to outpace its chief
   rival, Bob Evans, which has only three locations in the whole county.
   While some have expressed concern that the increased traffic
   congestion may pose a problem for people on their way to church or the
   Winn-Dixie, reaction to the news has been largely positive.
   [5]Enlarge Image cracker map 

   "New Cracker Barrel, huh?" motorist Marlon Wentz said. "Well, all
   right."

   This newest Cracker Barrel will offer the chain's signature cuisine of
   fried chicken, biscuits and gravy, and grits, as well as its usual
   rustic, old-timey decor, replete with big jars of penny candy and
   merchandise such as ceramic chickens, berry-scented candles, teddy
   bears wearing American flag sweatshirts, and wooden-peg "IQ tests."
   The waitstaff will be comprised almost exclusively of matronly
   Caucasian females who pepper their conversation with the word
   "darlin'."

   "The down-home cooking, the Americana-themed souvenirs--Cracker
   Barrel's all about preserving a special way of life," Woodhouse said.
   "Plus, we got a gross of these salt and pepper shakers shaped like
   silos, and they need to go somewhere."

   Woodhouse also revealed that the location would have its own "real
   tall sign that lights up, so you won't be able to miss it if you try."

   "We'll be listed on those gas-food-lodging exit signs on the highway
   too," Woodhouse said. "You know, the ones that tell you if gas, food,
   or lodging is nearby."

   The restaurant is scheduled to be open for business in approximately
   three months. Ground-breaking will begin next Wednesday, and
   construction will be handled by the fellows who do pretty much all the
   building around here.

   Woodhouse confirmed that Cracker Barrel is considering opening
   additional locations in the near future, like one near where the Black
   Cat fireworks stand is now, and another down by that speed trap that
   gets people if they aren't careful.

   "We got a good thing going here," said Woodhouse, leaning back in his
   rocking chair. "Can't see why we shouldn't just keep on keeping on
   with it."


   HOUSTON--The intense pressure and scrutiny that comes with attempting
   to break Major League Baseball's all-time hit-batsman mark, a
   once-thought untouchable record that has stood at 287 for over a
   century, came to a head yesterday when Craig Biggio lashed out against
   the media, blaming an avalanche of news coverage and reporters'
   ceaseless questioning for his recent hit-by-pitch slump.
   [4]Enlarge Image Craig Biggio 

   Biggio has not been struck by a pitch since July and has stalled at
   285, while Hughie Jennings' awe-inspiring, much-revered record--set
   during a playing career that spanned the decade from 1893 to
   1903--seems to be getting further and further out of reach.

   "You guys perpetuated this by comparing me to Hughie day in and day
   out," said a chain-smoking Biggio, showing reporters from over 50
   media outlets the bundles of hate mail he has received from baseball
   fans. "Listen to these people: 'Quit now before you break the hearts
   of fans everywhere, Craig.' 'Hey Craig Bitch, I'll kill you and your
   family if you break the record.' 'Jennings did it without an arm
   guard.' Do you think they had even heard of this guy before you people
   had my countdown on the front page every day? Jesus Christ!"

   "More than anything, I just want to be hit by three more pitches so
   all of this will go away," said Biggio, who claims he has not slept in
   weeks and has developed multiple stomach ulcers. "Now I know why Don
   Baylor quit at 267."

   Though Biggio has refrained from comment on what national media
   outlets have dubbed "The Chase" for the majority of the season, last
   night's outburst was more than likely a reaction to a special guest
   editorial in this week's Sports Illustrated. The Tom Verducci-penned
   piece stated that, no matter what numbers eventually appeared in the
   "total hit by pitch" column, Jennings and his "magical" 51 hit-batsman
   season of 1894 could never be dethroned as baseball's all-time
   hit-by-pitch king.
     Craig Biggio card

   All-time hit-by-pitch king Jennings

   "Craig Biggio has played nearly 10 seasons more than Jennings--that
   means he has had the opportunity to be hit by hundreds of thousands
   more pitches," Verducci writes. "It's a regrettable fact that, like it
   or not, baseball fans will have to accept that Craig Biggio will
   ultimately be hit by a baseball more times than Hughie Jennings. But
   he will never, ever bring the same amount of excitement to being hit
   by a pitch that Hughie did."

   The final line of Verducci's article read, "Craig Biggio: All-Time
   Hit-Batsman Leader. Just doesn't sound right."

   According to ESPN baseball analyst Tim Kurkjian, the main difference
   between Jennings and Biggio is that, in Jennings' playing days, he was
   universally adored by fans in all eight baseball cities. Kurkjian
   notes that, perhaps unfairly, Biggio's attempt to break the record has
   only been embraced in Houston, evidenced by the enormous "Hit By
   Pitch" countdown sign in left field and by the fireworks that are set
   off every time Biggio is beaned.

   "True, Biggio is booed in every major-league ballpark other than his
   own," Kurkjian said. "But this is not just a historic record we're
   talking about here. It's a fairytale of a record, a romantic ideal
   almost, a high-water mark set by one of baseball's most well-known
   figures. Naturally, there is going to be a backlash."

   "And as far as I'm concerned, the arm-guard argument can be saved for
   a later time. The key for Biggio is to block everything out, play
   Craig Biggio baseball, and wait for his pitch. The wild fastballs and
   the non-breaking curveballs will eventually come if he's patient."

   With over 50 games remaining, Biggio has ample time to break the
   record, though there are several tangible factors that can be blamed
   for his recent stall. Most significant is the simple fact that the
   closer he gets to the immortal mark, pitchers around the league have
   been throwing to, instead of at, Biggio.

   "No one wants to be the guy who throws that record 288th bean-ball,"
   New York Mets pitcher Tom Glavine said. "From this point on, when
   Craig comes up to bat, he is only going to get pitches he can hit.
   Still, I am sure some pitcher will make a mistake, and serve up a wild
   pitch on a silver platter. When that happens, Craig will definitely
   know to lay into it."

   "After all," Glavine said, "he is one of the all-time greats."


   BALTIMORE--Police officers investigating complaints of a strange smell
   coming from an abandoned lot in the Curtis Bay neighborhood of
   Baltimore early Monday morning were shocked to stumble on the
   partially decomposed bodies of two unidentified children lying right
   next to an arrowhead that could be hundreds or perhaps even thousands
   of years old.
   [4]Enlarge Image Crime Scene 

   Baltimore Police Department lab technicians were shocked by the
   relatively good condition of the arrowhead.

   "At this time, we are using all available resources to determine just
   what occurred here," Sgt. Richard Palmer of the Baltimore Police
   Department said. "The best scenario we can imagine right now is that
   there was some kind of awesome Indian battle--maybe even an all-out
   war."

   "Of course, we'd love to find conclusive evidence that this thing
   belonged to Chief  Sitting Bull himself," Palmer added. "Right now,
   however, we just can't say for sure."

   While police say they remain baffled by the events that unfolded, they
   have been able to determine that the bodies are those of two young
   girls, believed to be between the ages of 8 and 10, both of whom
   suffered an apparently violent death. Their bodies showed signs of
   blunt force trauma to the head, as well as several postmortem stab
   wounds, although no indications of sexual abuse were present. A steel
   pipe bearing human blood and tissue matter was found at the scene but
   did not appear to be related to the arrowhead.

   "We just couldn't believe what we were seeing," said Lt. Derek
   LaScolla, the lead detective on the case. "As a police officer, you
   like to think you're prepared for anything, but an arrowhead all the
   way out here is an extremely rare find. I would have assumed they'd
   all been dug up during construction by now."

   LaScolla said the discovery was made at approximately 4 a.m., at which
   point police cordoned off a quarter-mile area surrounding the
   arrowhead and began conducting an extensive search for additional
   clues, such as some pottery or beads. The girls' dental records could
   not be checked because the teeth had all been removed, and the bodies
   do not appear to match any recent missing persons reports or any
   artists' depictions of what the Indians who once lived in the
   Baltimore area might have looked like.

   Unfortunately, no woolly mammoth hairs were found on the arrowhead.

   "It's difficult to imagine anything more tragic than this," Sgt.
   Palmer said. "Brave warriors used to walk on this very ground, and
   this [arrowhead] is all that remains of their legacy. It really puts
   everything into perspective."

   Initial forensics reports indicated that, because plants had not grown
   over the corpses completely, they had likely not been in that location
   for more than three months, and after years of exposure to the
   elements, the arrowhead's point was still quite sharp.

   "We're conducting an extensive study on the numerous gouge marks,"
   forensic investigator Marcelline Woodward said. "That's how they
   sharpened them. It's white flint, characteristic of the Delaware
   tribe, or maybe the Conoy. We'll put everything on hold at the lab
   until we can solve this mystery."

   Police continued to search the area through the night, but no
   additional bodies or Indian artifacts were found. Though authorities
   are hesitant to make any statements about the killer, they say that
   the typical profile is generally a male between the ages of 17 and 40,
   which was most likely the age of the hunter who lost his arrowhead in
   the first place.

   "It would be irresponsible to say anything definitive until we get the
   carbon dating results," said Woodward, sealing the arrowhead in a
   plastic baggie marked "Don't Touch!!!". "But if I had to guess, I'd
   say this arrowhead's like 500 years old. Imagine the journey this must
   have taken."

   The Baltimore police are urging citizens to come forward if they have
   noticed any suspicious activity in the neighborhood, if they might be
   able to identify the girls, or if they know anything about arrowheads.

   Dan Marino

   NEW YORK--Dan Marino, the former Dolphins quarterback, former multiple
   NFL all-time record holder, and current co-host of HBO's Inside The
   NFL, was the host, producer, and head writer of the hour-long HBO
   special Mr. 278, which aired Monday and commemorates Brett Favre
   breaking the all-time record for interceptions.

   "Join me in saluting Brett Favre for breaking the all-time
   interception record of 277 set by George Blanda--truly a milestone for
   the ages," Marino intoned during the opening montage, which featured
   Favre throwing some of his most memorable picks. "Some say records
   were made to be broken--personally, I've never believed that--but in
   any case the career interception mark was believed to be unreachable.
   It takes a player with an unusual combination of not knowing when to
   retire, not knowing when to stop trying to rack up the completions,
   and not knowing when to stop trying to throw touchdowns. And it seems
   that lucky player is everyone's big hero quarterback, Brett Favre."

   "I once held all the major records, but I never came close on
   interceptions," Marino added. "Also, I want to make it clear that I
   still have the records for passing yards in a season and in a career,
   but I have to hand it to Brett: He is now the interception record
   holder. Congratulations there, buddy."

   Marino began work on Mr. 278 late in the 2006 season, when it became
   apparent that Favre was on pace to break Blanda's interception record,
   as well as Marino's for touchdown passes, sometime in the 2007 season.
   When HBO producers balked at the idea of expanding their original
   planned 30-second supporting segment, Marino offered to work the show
   without pay and secured advertising commitments from NutriSystem, Papa
   John's Pizza, and Isotoner gloves.

   "I played in the NFL for many good years, which is why I set records
   for attempts, completions, and total seasons with 3,000 yards
   passing," Marino's voice can be heard to say as an on-screen graphic
   displayed the dozens of defensive players who had intercepted a Favre
   pass. "I even set a record for consecutive 3,000-yard seasons. Brett
   Favre has broken all of those, largely since he decided not to retire
   yet. And now, he has one of the most memorable records of all:
   interceptions."

   Marino then interviewed more than 30 current and former NFL players
   who had participated in Favre's record interception streak, including
   Brain Urlacher, Deion Sanders, Troy Vincent, and John Lynch. Marino
   devoted special attention to Sean Taylor, who was on the receiving end
   of Favre's record-breaking 278th interception, an ill-advised
   downfield sideline attempt thrown off the back foot, which Taylor
   neatly high-pointed.

   Marino also interviewed players who had intercepted Favre passes in
   college, during Favre's high school career in Mississippi, and during
   Packers training camp. In one poignant segment, Marino tracked down
   advertising copywriter Leroy Holsapple, the man who may have first
   intercepted Favre when, as an 8-year-old, he picked off a wild toss
   across the middle of the field during a 1979 Pop Warner game.

   "We've seen a lot of interceptions tonight," Marino said in conclusion
   as another painstakingly edited Favre interception montage, the ninth
   and last in the program, played behind him. "Were all of them were his
   fault? Maybe not--it's not for us to say. Am I jealous of his record?
   Maybe. I never considered myself to be all that concerned with
   statistics, and with my plus-168 TD-to-interception record, I'll never
   know what it's like to be "Mr. 278," the all-time interception king.
   Because the man who holds that record, perhaps forever, is Brett
   Favre."


   WASHINGTON, DC--In an emblematic move intended to stand in for the
   official symbolic reprimand of the president, a vehemently
   well-mannered mob of demonstrators censured an effigy of George W.
   Bush Tuesday, making known its displeasure over such actions as
   illegal wiretapping and the politically motivated firing of federal
   lawyers.
   [4]Enlarge Image Civilized Mob 

   An activist holds aloft the censure motion so that all in the crowd
   can read it carefully and make up their minds.

   Armed with neatly lettered signs, and umbrellas in the event of rain,
   the group milled about the Capitol for several hours, chanting the
   anti-Bush slogans "Bush Must Go Through The Same Channels As Any Other
   President to Take Military Action--That Actually Falls Under Congress'
   Purview" and "Down With The Idea Of Executive Privilege, Both In
   General And As It Relates To Bush" before performing the mock censure.

   Although some members of the crowd initially incited a metaphorical
   impeachment of the president, a majority felt that would be far too
   harsh a symbolic action to take. After agreeing on the censure, the
   decorous riffraff whipped themselves into a relative frenzy and
   clamored single file to the National Mall with the meticulously
   crafted Bush effigy.

   "Things really got out of hand after we drafted and considered the
   resolution and then presented it to the mock House Judiciary
   Committee," participant Patrick Firth said about the mob's public
   representation of a procedure that neither directly affects the
   presidency nor carries any particular legal consequences. "After we
   finally adopted the motion to proceed, there was no turning back. I
   felt like I was watching someone else edit and redraft the approved
   measure."

   The Bush effigy, a surprisingly accurate likeness outfitted in a blue
   suit and red power tie, was originally to be taken to the steps of the
   Capitol Building for the censure proceedings. The mob turned back,
   however, when one among the rabble called a point of order and
   explained that the president would not be present if Congress were
   actually to pass censure. The crowd then unanimously moved to postpone
   its mock Senate vote until a detailed facsimile of the Oval Office
   could be constructed on the lawn of the Mall and the effigy placed
   inside it.
   [5]Enlarge Image Civilized Mob Jump 

   Unruly pro-censure radicals in Washington. One observer described the
   atmosphere as "rife with umbrage."

   Censure then appeared inevitable, until a faction of the horde
   brandished effigies of Republican senators and mounted a filibuster.

   "It was a scary couple hours," said demonstrator Harold Lemarche, who
   helped beat back the stonewalling tactic after a long but orderly
   debate. "There was even some talk of abandoning Robert's Rules of
   Order. It's a good thing the mock senators were able to muster the
   three-fifths majority vote required to defeat the filibuster, or this
   thing could have gotten real ugly, real fast."

   When the measure finally passed, the news was officially delivered to
   the effigy and a large banner reading "CENSURED!" was hung above it.
   This was followed by several minutes of silent pointing and glaring
   before the crowd slowly dispersed.

   Democratic leaders were quick to distance themselves from the subdued
   riot out of fear that condoning even a meta-symbolic political rebuke
   would alienate some of their more mild-mannered constituents.

   "We understand that many Americans are frustrated with the current
   administration, but that doesn't mean they should be staging a
   constitutionally mandated political procedure on the streets of our
   nation's capital," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said. "We urge you,
   please do not take the letter of the law into your own hands. Instead,
   write firm but polite correspondence to your congressional
   representatives."

   Top Republicans loudly denounced the censure.

   "This is exactly the kind of vicious, unbridled, restrained
   indignation we can expect if Democrats stay in power," Senate Minority
   Whip Trent Lott said. "Where will this behavior end--a mock
   no-confidence vote against the surgeon general?"

   According to witnesses, police were present at the scene of the
   figurative censure but were powerless to stop the mob, as all of the
   paperwork required to stage the demonstration had been filed weeks
   earlier.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Democrats in both houses of Congress demanded a
   thorough inquiry Monday into whether or not the American people think
   they are doing a good enough job, and what, if anything, they should
   do differently.
   [4]Enlarge Image House Democrats 

   Sen. Majority Leader Reid grills the press on whether they like him.

   "We cannot afford to make a wrong move as we face this crucial
   crossroads in our nation's history, which is why we need to know for
   sure what decision you'll support the most before we make it," said
   House Speaker Nancy Pelosi at a Democratic National Committee
   fundraiser Monday, scrutinizing the assembled crowd for signs of
   approval. "The question facing us today is simple: Do you like us? If
   not, why? We demand an answer."

   Added Pelosi: "The time for second-guessing our every move is now."

   The DNC is in the process of forming a blue-ribbon advisory panel to
   investigate the true extent of Democratic popularity. Members
   reportedly include former Democratic congressman and
   independent-committee stalwart Lee Hamilton, pundit Arianna
   Huffington, Columbus, OH resident and semi-regular voter Nicole Jones,
   and Mukesh Chennapragada, a guy in the phone book. Among the panel's
   tasks are determining exactly what the clear mandate the Democrats
   received in their sweeping election victory last November was, and
   seeking the advice of political strategists, trend-watchers,
   historians, elder statesmen, psychologists, family, friends,
   acquaintances, and people on the street believed to represent "real
   Americans."

   Finally, the panel will close its investigation by releasing an
   official "Democratic Performance Comment Card," which will rate the
   party as either "poor," "fair," "average," or "excellent." Room for
   additional comments will be provided on the back of the card.

   Some Democrats, however, deem the panel inadequate, and call for
   Congress to appoint an independent counsel to cross-examine
   constituents. Others believe that the feedback from a special 1-800
   "How's Our Governing?" number, which has been featured on bumper
   stickers affixed to the campaign tour buses of Democratic presidential
   candidates, should be analyzed before proceeding further.

   "We need to aggressively pursue whatever it is people think we should
   do," Sen. John Kerry (D-MA) said. "We took a bold stance against the
   war--is that okay with everyone? We thought that was what people
   wanted, but we are not above changing our minds if that is what the
   situation requires. We also aired some pretty harsh rhetoric about the
   current administration--were we out of line? If people think we should
   ease back on the president for a while, we'll be more than happy to
   take a week off and focus on naming airports. We just need to know."

   Kerry continued: "We do not--and I cannot stress this enough--want to
   offend anybody or cause anyone to dislike us for any reason."

   Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said he is confident, or mostly
   confident, that the results of the inquiry will make the Democratic
   Party more responsive to the needs of its constituents, or at least
   more likeable.

   "We just want to be as popular as we can be," Reid said. "Without
   immediate and diligent oversight on this matter, we have no idea if we
   are or are not doing whatever it is everybody may or may not want at
   any given time. Most of you are still opposed to the war, right? If an
   election were held today, would you still vote for us? These are
   questions that demand answers."

   "That is, unless that's too much to ask," Reid added. "If that's too
   controversial a question, or if it makes anyone feel uncomfortable in
   any way, please, just let us know. Unless, of course, you honestly
   don't mind. Then it's fine."

   Congressional Republicans have accused Democrats of abusing their
   newfound power.

   "They're bogging down the democratic process for no reason," House
   Minority Leader John Boehner said. "When we were the majority, we
   didn't care how Americans felt--we just did what we wanted."

   The harshest criticism of the move has, as usual, come from the
   Democrats themselves.

   "By acting hastily, we may be encouraging possible negative public
   opinion in 2008," Rep. Bob Filner (D-CA) said. "The last thing we
   Democrats need to do now is pressure the American people, when so much
   is on the line. If they want to give us more feedback, I'm sure they
   will, in time. It's best not to take too many risks."

   "Right?" Filner added.


   WASHINGTON, DC--In the latest in a long series of ominous public
   pronouncements, the Department of Evil released a statement Monday
   demanding that all residents of the United States must die.
   [4]Enlarge Image Department Of Evil 

   Dread Secretary of Evil Hammond S. Reynolds told reporters that they,
   too, must die.

   "Yes, all must die," Dread Secretary of Evil Hammond S. Reynolds said
   during a press conference in Room 1228 of Washington's Robert C.
   Weaver Federal Building. "There shall soon come an accounting in which
   all will fall before the Grim Reaper as wheat in winter, as lambs
   under the knife. Soon all necks will feel the steely bite of our soul-
   thirsting axe, wielded by the unforgiving iron hand of the Department
   of Evil. Thus spake I, Dread Secretary Reynolds."

   The dread secretary then took questions from the assembled reporters.

   Although the Department of Evil has not yet announced the exact
   timetable for the death of all, it recommends citizens make their
   peace with doomed relatives and spouses immediately, as the hour of
   their ending draws ever nigh and will be upon them as soon as the
   necessary funding has been authorized by the House Appropriations
   Committee.

   "This budget approval is merely a pitiful, niggling formality, for
   soon we'll be free to swarm across the land draining the life-pus out
   of all you quivering mortal worms," Reynolds said. "Doubt us not: Come
   the wintertide, you all shall die, and die you will. Sorry, I meant
   'must.' Die you must!"

   Originally established by an act of Congress in 1953 and granted
   broader powers and funding in 1986 under the second Reagan
   administration, the Department of Evil has been an occasional source
   of controversy. Its 1993 And The Streets Shall Run Red With The Blood
   Of The Innocent initiative was highly criticized at the time by
   moderates, who thought the department's agenda overly harsh.
   [5]Enlarge Image Department Of Evil Jump 

   An official from the Department of Evil described their 2007 strategic
   action plan at a conference in January.

   In 2004, an ambitious plan to seed the clouds with blood and then rain
   excruciation down upon the thrice-damned didn't even make it past a
   Senate budget committee, which criticized the plan as poorly
   conceived.

   And last year, the department received a stinging blow after Congress
   voted to allocate only one-third of the money requested to swell the
   ranks of its deranged, barbarous demon cavalry.

   Despite those recent setbacks, a DOE spokesbeast said that the dread
   secretary remains confident that his department will prevail in the
   end.

   To publicize their current mission, the Department of Evil distributed
   to media outlets a ring-bound portfolio titled "You Shall All Perish
   Screaming 2007," which provides estimates and logistics detailing how
   everyone will die, a line-by-line budget breakdown, and an addendum
   apologizing that the document was not printed in human blood. The full
   text is available at evil.gov.

   The "All Must Die" initiative, the highest-profile program proposed by
   the DOE in recent memory, came under almost immediate scrutiny from
   politicians on both sides of the aisle.

   "I don't understand why we still even have a Department of Evil," Sen.
   Sherrod Brown (D-OH) said. "It's a Cold War holdover, an artifact of
   the '50s that has outlived its usefulness. Mr. Reynolds has done as
   good a job as any recent dread secretary, but as afraid as I am of
   him, I believe his talents would be better served at Education or
   Agriculture."

   "Once again, Mr. Reynolds wants to throw money at the everyone-dies
   issue--in this case, $11.43 billion," Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA) said.
   "This is a waste of taxpayer dollars to do work best left to the
   private sector. It's high time for the DOE to be absorbed into
   Homeland Security, where it belongs."

   At the press conference, Reynolds refused to disclose his reasons for
   proposing that all must die.

   "Question not the dread secretary, insects!" said Reynolds, rearing
   back his mighty head and bellowing as a powerful crescendo emanated
   from the department's enormous Gothic pipe organ. "First, the
   bandwagoners in Congress seek to derail our plans or committee them to
   death. Now, the mindless blood-bags who populate this teeming nation
   wish to know why they must perish. I will respond with the same answer
   we have always given: Despair, groveling vermin, and may your deaf,
   blind God forsake the United States of America! We're done here."


   HOUSTON--Local resident Ethan Kendler's description of his sexual
   fantasies to girlfriend Rebecca LaBatt veered awkwardly from the kinky
   to the banal Sunday, as a raunchy but emotionally honest expression of
   carnal desire degenerated into inoffensive, marginally erotic
   entreaties.

   "We meet up with your friends Kelly and Tiffany at a bar, or just
   Kelly, actually, and we get kind of drunk," said Kendler, 25, a bike
   shop technician, as he snuggled with LaBatt in his one-bedroom
   apartment. "While we're playing pool, she bends over to line up her
   shot and we notice she's not wearing any panties."
   [4]Enlarge Image Sexual Fantasy 

   "That's when we decide that she's had too much to drink and escort her
   home," added Kendler, who had quickly noted LaBatt's silent reaction.
   "Because it's not safe for her to walk home alone at night."

   Kendler, who has been dating LaBatt, 26, since May, reportedly leaped
   at her invitation to share his sexual fantasies, eager to divulge the
   various scenarios of voyeurism and exhibitionism he had kept to
   himself for a decade. But his shyness soon returned last week after a
   description of spying on his girlfriend through her door while she
   fondled herself caused the corners of LaBatt's mouth to turn down
   slightly. Kendler muttered that he was "just kidding" and quickly
   abandoned the scenario.

    "So on the way home from dropping off Kelly, ensuring that she safely
   gets inside her apartment, we pass through a dark alley and I tie you
   up," Kendler said. "With the gentle embrace of my arms. And I hold you
   tight as a soft mist covers us. And my hand moves toward your, your
   hand so I can pull, or guide you willingly, back to my place, and
   climb into my nice big warm bed."

    Alarmed that LaBatt had not met his gaze for several seconds, Kendler
   chose not to relate his desire to dress her like a schoolgirl, apply
   nipple clamps, and play sadistic headmaster.

   A desperate Kendler quickly cast his eyes around his apartment in
   search of something that could move the fantasy in a different,
   mutually satisfying direction.

    "There's whipped cream in the refrigerator," said Kendler, encouraged
   by a fleeting gleam in LaBatt's eye. "I spray some on your...whatever
   you prefer to call your vagina. Then I get out my camera and make sure
   it's turned off."

   Kendler also substituted the word "lovingly" for the words "roughly,"
   "eagerly," and "thoroughly," and perhaps demonstrated too much
   sensitivity towards the fact that LaBatt has a twin sister.

   Kendler showed signs of achieving a possible sex-fantasy breakthrough
   when he began talking about using sex toys in his and LaBatt's
   lovemaking, and then embarked on a spanking scenario. Fearing that
   LaBatt might suspect that he was talking about his ex-girlfriend,
   however, he cut his digression short and settled on describing a
   romantic candlelight dinner.

    "I put my finger up your--" said Kendler, choking back the word
   "ass." "Lips. Up to your lips. Like, to hush you, because the moment
   is so awe-inspiring. Then I move my hand to the back of your head and,
   um, stroke your hair. And then we make gentle, respectful, beautiful
   love. Then we cuddle. And that's what my fantasy is."

    The discussion culminated with the couple engaging in enthusiastic,
   but otherwise routine missionary-position sex, which LaBatt described
   in a Monday phone interview as "nice, but not that different from
   anything we've done before."

    "I was really surprised by how tender his fantasy was," LaBatt said.
   "I was giving off all these body-language cues to get him to talk
   dirty--but I guess he's just naturally sweet and old-fashioned. I was
   really hoping he would talk about tying me up and fucking me in the
   ass. Is it just me, or are guys complete pussies?"


   SAN FRANCISCO--A sellout crowd rose to its feet and exploded into
   ecstatic cheers Tuesday night as Barry Bonds completed the downfall of
   America's most revered sport by hitting a thundering 435-foot shot
   into the right center field bleachers for career home run No. 756 and
   tainting baseball's most beloved record.
   [4]Enlarge Image Barry Bonds 

   Celebrations broke out throughout AT&T Park and thousands of
   flashbulbs went off as Bonds took his ceremonial trip around the
   bases, his arms raised in a jubilant gesture of triumph as he
   completed his desecration of baseball. Fireworks filled the night sky
   to mark the utter destruction of the national pastime, a scramble for
   the infamous baseball broke out in the stands, and the game was
   interrupted for 10 minutes in the bottom of the fifth to mark the
   shameful occasion.

   Mike Bacsik, the pitcher who made the difficult and admirable decision
   to pitch to Bonds as if he were a normal player, and who will forever
   be known as the man whose fastball was sent out of the park along with
   the last remnant of baseball's self-respect, could only watch. Bonds
   would later present Bacsik with an autographed bat.

   Moments after Bonds crossed home plate into the loving arms of his
   family and the eventual judgment of history, he addressed the fans,
   thanking them for their support on his long, hard road of perverting
   baseball.

   "Thank you very much. I got to thank all of you, all the fans here in
   San Francisco. It's been fantastic," he said to his deluded and
   complicit home crowd as his godfather Willie Mays, a fading symbol of
   what baseball once was, stood at his side.

   As soon as Bonds completed his self-congratulation, a self-conscious
   gasp could be heard as a videotaped message from Hank Aaron was played
   over the video screen, sending surprise and a fleeting moment of
   uncomfortable self-awareness through both the crowd and Bonds himself.

   "Throughout the past century, the home run has held a special place in
   baseball and I have been privileged to hold this record for 33 of
   those years," said Aaron, whose legacy of persevering with profound
   personal dignity through racism and persecution to become the all-time
   home run leader will hopefully not be tarnished by public
   acknowledgment of Bonds.

   "I move over now and offer my best wishes to Barry and his family on
   this historic achievement," Aaron concluded, displaying infinitely
   more grace than Bonds, baseball fans, and perhaps even baseball itself
   had any right to ask of him.

   Bonds then presented his helmet, gloves, and bat to a steward of the
   Baseball Hall of Fame for shipment to Cooperstown, where they will be
   enshrined forever, allowing fathers and sons to come and stare at them
   glumly as they bear mute witness to baseball's diminished glory.

   The Nationals won the game, 8-6.


   PHOENIX--Years of controversy were finally settled Monday after DNA
   tests conclusively proved that Duane Panovich, an attraction at the
   Phoenix Zoo for the past 11 years, was indeed a human being, and not a
   reticulated giraffe from southwestern Kenya.
   [4]Enlarge Image DNA Evidence Frees Man From Zoo 

   Panovich's former herd-mates enjoy some alfalfa.

   "This is truly a day of jubilation and vindication," said Panovich's
   attorney, Frank Hablis, who successfully argued in a federal court in
   June that the zoo should permit a DNA test to determine whether
   Panovich was genetically closer to a Homo sapiens or a Giraffa
   camelopardalis. "We're deeply grateful that science has advanced
   enough over the years to finally uncover the truth and clear his name
   of the allegations of giraffehood that have been such a burden to him
   and his family."

   Shortly after the findings were revealed, Phoenix Zoo staff
   tranquilized, crated, and transported Panovich by helicopter to his
   Mesa, AZ home, where he was released into his front yard and
   reintroduced to his mate and two young.

   "It's good to finally be home, but more than anything I'm looking
   forward to wearing clothes again," a still-groggy Panovich told
   reporters as an oxpecker bird sat on his shoulder and fed on ticks.

   Panovich, a 42-year-old electrical engineer who stands approximately
   5-feet-11-inches tall, was known during his years at the zoo as
   Wekesa, the Swahili word for "shimmering lily."
   [5]Enlarge Image DNA Evidence Jump 

   As Wekesa, Panovich was among the Phoenix Zoo's most beloved
   attractions. His image was reproduced on hot-selling T-shirts and
   coffee mugs, and he even inspired a Wekesa beanbag stuffed animal.

   Though the zoo eventually bowed to demands from human-rights activists
   to return Panovich to his natural habitat, resentment lingers over his
   release.

   "Wekesa will be back, mark my words," said Reggie Martin, the
   attendant who looked after Panovich for more than a decade. "He'll
   break loose and be eating out of someone's flower box when we pick him
   up again."

   In July 1996, Panovich and his wife Claire were visiting the zoo with
   their then- preschool-age children when several zoo employees believed
   they had spotted a loose giraffe wandering near the baboon exhibit.
   Quickly cordoning off the area, they lassoed Panovich, tranquilized
   him, and placed him in the giraffe pen. Although it was discovered a
   few days later that the zoo had one more giraffe than usual, no owner
   stepped forward to claim Panovich, and a decision was made to keep
   him.
     Duane Panovich

   Duane Panovich

   However, zoo officials began to sense trouble with their new giraffe a
   year later when they attempted to breed him with several of the zoo's
   female giraffes. Panovich sired no calves and showed virtually no
   interest in the opposite sex.

   "That was a big disappointment," Martin said. "He had the ability to
   rut year-round, which is very unique for a giraffe. But when we'd
   spray him with female giraffe urine so he'd become aroused by the
   pheromones, he'd try to kick me with his hooves."

   Although zoo captivity offered him such comforts as free veterinary
   care, a fully heated winter enclosure, and fresh acacia leaves
   imported at considerable expense, Panovich could only think of
   freedom.

   "I so wanted to escape," said Panovich as he fought back tears. "But I
   was worried I'd fall and break my leg trying to jump the concrete
   moat, and then they would be forced to put me down."

   He added that the hardest part of his long ordeal was not being around
   to see his children grow up, except for rare occasions when they came
   to visit with their classes on field trips.

   "Wekesa often told me that he didn't belong in here," Martin said.
   "But everybody says that."

   Through the years, Claire Panovich repeatedly petitioned the zoo to
   release her husband, arguing that his markings, lack of horns, and
   bipedal gait were not consistent with that of a giraffe. She was
   forcibly removed by zoo security on several occasions, most notably in
   2002 for throwing a box of his favorite Hostess snack cakes into his
   pen.

   In a statement following Panovich's release, the zoo said it will
   appeal the court's decision regarding its former giraffe. In spite of
   this, Panovich's story has spurred new interest in the case of
   Ernesto, a scarlet ibis that claims to be a contractor hired to
   remodel the aviary at the Houston Zoo.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Citing centuries of quality- control issues that have
   resulted in chronic unreliability, cascading system failures, and even
   total unit shutdown, the American Pug Breeders Association announced a
   recall Monday of all pugs produced between February 2006 and the
   present day.
   [4]Enlarge Image Dog Breeders 

   "We apologize wholeheartedly to any and all owners of the 2007 pug,"
   APBA director Betty McAndrews said at a press conference, standing
   before a table where 10 defective pugs were displayed. "While pug
   owners are accustomed to dog malfunction, the latest animals are prone
   to more problems than just the usual joint failures, overheating,
   seizures, chronic respiratory defects, and inability to breed without
   assistance. The latest model pug is simply not in any way a viable
   dog."

   According to the APBA's online recall notice, pugs produced in the
   specified period are at "moderate to high risk" for convulsive
   respiratory failure, soft palate suppuration, corneal ulcers leading
   to sudden deliquescence of the eyeballs, catastrophic lung collapse,
   ingrown ribs, diabetes, patellar luxation, encephalitis, Lou Gehrig's
   pug's disease, impacted hips, neck dysplasia, tracheal fissures,
   morbid obesity, cranial arthritis, and leakage of the anal sacs. In
   addition, due to strong allergic reactions to almost all medications,
   97 percent of pugs are untreatable.
   [5]Recalled Pugs 

   Recalled Pugs

   This week, the APBA has begun to send out recall information and
   cardboard mailing boxes to registered pug owners, who are asked to
   place their '07 pug inside the box, seal it, and, if they wish, punch
   air holes in the top and sides. Owners must then put the box inside an
   airtight heavy-duty plastic bag, affix a postage-paid mailing label,
   and drop it off at any U.S. post office.

   In order to ensure that all '07 pugs are taken out of circulation, the
   organization is also providing a complimentary on-site disposal
   service to pug owners who are otherwise unable to participate in the
   recall.

   "We'd prefer to destroy all units here at our headquarters--we already
   have the chimneys going day and night," McAndrews said. "But the very
   young and the very old seem rather reluctant to send in their pugs,
   despite all of their well-documented flaws. To protect our reputation
   as pug breeders, we're going to spend the next month visiting
   individual homes and putting these dogs out of everyone's misery."

   For Mason City, IA pug owner Lee Kraus, the APBA's announcement comes
   as a complete vindication after years of contending with defective
   pugs. In the past five years alone, Kraus has attempted to return
   three of the dogs to his local breeder, and each time has been denied
   either a refund or an exchange for a more reliable make, such as a
   Shih Tzu.

   "I'm glad to see the APBA is finally taking responsibility for this
   disaster," Kraus said. "Governor Fattpants gave me insomnia with his
   constant snorting, and Boiler ruined my bedroom set when he went into
   total renal shutdown."

   Cindy Anderson of the Sarasota, FL-based Pug Owners Group shares
   Kraus's frustration with the highly developed breed.

   "After trying and failing to nurse Princess Kevin through hemorrhagic
   lupus and Boatsley through a hysterical tubal pregnancy, I don't know
   if I'll ever own another pug," Anderson said. "It's not worth the
   hassle."

   "Oh, who am I kidding? They're just so cute!" she added. "I love their
   adorable snorting and their funny little waddle. We're going to call
   our next one Lopez."


   LOS ANGELES--Following his critically acclaimed performance in the
   post-Sept. 11 drama Reign Over Me, a "spellbinding" interview on The
   Colbert Report, and a graceful supporting role in a recent "Make Your
   Own Super Bowl Commercial" ad campaign, actor's actor and voice of his
   generation Don Cheadle captivated patrons of Ollie's Coffee Shop in
   downtown L.A. Monday with his order of a grande half-caff Americano
   and banana- walnut muffin.
     Don Cheadle

   "In a word? Breathtaking," said student Jonathan Stern, who has called
   the three-and-a-half-minute transaction "the Million Dollar Baby" of
   coffee shop purchases. "Cheadle managed to deliver the kind of raw,
   seething emotion necessary to capture the urgency of his craving for
   caffeine."

   "I felt like I was there, experiencing it right alongside him, instead
   of sitting several feet away near the window," Stern added.

   Cheadle, best known for his work in Hotel Rwanda, has received endless
   praise and even an Oscar nomination for his ability to deliver deeply
   resonant performances in dramatic films about African genocides and
   strained race relations, as well as in offbeat comedies and A-list
   heist films.

   "God, I keep thinking about the way he paused to check the specials
   board," said regular Ollie's customer and cosmetologist Joyce Ruiz.
   "Everything was in that pause. A lesser actor could easily have
   oversold the desire for a cranberry bran muffin, but Cheadle remained
   deliberate and restrained."
   [4]Enlarge Image Don Cheadle Cafe 

   "I can't imagine even Terrence Howard or Philip Seymour Hoffman
   pulling that off with such aplomb," Ruiz continued.

   Living up to his reputation as a "dogged perfectionist," Cheadle was
   spotted researching the highly anticipated purchase at several
   different Los Angeles-area coffee shops in recent months. Though the
   actor spent years testing various wardrobe options and beverage
   choices, the 10-odd customers who were lucky enough to witness the
   final product agreed that his hard work paid off.

   "What I saw today was gold-standard Cheadle," said general contractor
   Dave Hoyt, who was in line during the actor's purchase. "I'd venture
   to say it was the most amazing performance I've seen from him since I
   drove past a bus that had his Gap ad on the side. I sobbed in my car
   for a long time that day, thinking about art's capacity to transcend
   human tragedy."
     The Transaction

   Customers also heaped praise on the unorthodox, and at times
   surprising, decisions that separated Cheadle's purchase from so many
   others.

   "He made some gutsy choices that would have fallen flat in less
   talented hands," said real estate agent Beverly Kinney of a
   controversial moment during the transaction when Cheadle dropped some
   of his change onto the floor after paying.  "But under Cheadle's
   command, they served to seamlessly create a convincing dimension of
   vulnerability and humanity."

   Employees at the coffee shop noted that barista Monica Naylor turned
   in her career-best performance during the transaction, reinforcing
   Cheadle's reputation as a customer who pushes those he purchases
   things from to the zenith of their abilities.

   "Cheadle put Monica at ease," coworker Kyle Brent said. "He never
   overshadowed or downplayed the importance of her part in the purchase,
   and she definitely benefited from his experience as a customer. He's
   just one of those people who makes everyone around him better."

   Ollie's patron Sarah Shoemaker, 27, added that the transaction was
   "the most powerful exchange of goods and services of the year."

   Cheadle's performance, however, was not without its critics.

   "This is the second time in as many days that he's been to this caf,"
   Shoemaker said. "He should mix it up a bit. A bail bonds office? An
   ice-cream shop? An ATM? He's such a phenomenal talent that it'd be a
   shame to see him get into a rut and fall short of his potential."


   MINNEAPOLIS--Addressing a group of incoming University of Minnesota
   freshmen at an orientation meeting Sunday, Comstock Hall resident
   assistant Marcus Nelson told students they were lucky to be living on
   his floor because, unlike the other RAs on campus, he wasn't "on a big
   power trip."
   [4]Enlarge Image Dorm RA 

   Dorm RA Marcus Nelson told his residents that as a freshman he used to
   live on this same dorm floor himself.

   Nelson, a senior beginning his second year as a resident assistant on
   the coed dormitory's fourth floor, promised the 42 new students a
   "totally laid-back, no-pressure atmosphere of mutual respect and trust
   and stuff like that" during their stay.

   "You've got a leg up on other freshmen already, because 4-North
   rocks," Nelson said. "There's amazing energy here, because we keep it
   positive."

   Added Nelson: "I only have one rule. Call me Marc, not Marcus."

   Wearing a baseball cap turned backwards and his room key on a string
   around his neck, the Mankato, MN-born education major vowed "not to
   crack down too hard" on anyone violating bans on hot plates or masking
   tape on the walls. Nelson said that, whenever possible, he preferred
   using the honor system.

   "I'm not here to come down on you," Nelson said. "I won't flip out if
   you plug in a 150-watt or larger halogen-lamp bulb. I'd ask you to get
   rid of it only because I wouldn't want you to get in trouble, not
   because I get off on bossing you around."

   "I'm also not going to write you up for playing your stereo during
   quiet hours," he added. "Just don't be really loud. I'm pretty mellow,
   but I do have a job to do. And this is just common sense, but never
   pull the fire alarm except in the event of an emergency."

   Nelson then rolled his eyes and smirked as he described the
   university's "strict" drug and alcohol ban as outlined in the student
   handbook, repeatedly reminding the dorm residents that the disclosure
   was something he "had to do."

   "I should also mention that on the first day there's a mandatory
   diversity workshop in the lounge," Nelson said. "I know it sounds like
   a bummer, but I've been to it before, and it actually makes some cool
   points. I think you might get something out of it."

   Following the orientation, Nelson mingled among the students and
   further promoted his relaxed, non-tight-ass image.

   "I might have seemed intimidating up there, but I'm chill," Nelson
   told first-year student John Andrusco. "I've got your back, man. I
   don't care what you do, just don't get me in trouble."

   Nelson also confided to freshmen Craig Szyla and Tom Luo that he
   installed the name signs on their assigned dorm rooms himself.

   "The hall director wanted us to just put your names up," Nelson said.
   "I was like, no way. You guys are way cooler than that, so I put
   Family Guy stickers on them too."

   Despite Nelson's prediction that the incoming freshmen will want to
   stay at Comstock until they graduate, University of Minnesota campus
   residency records reveal that 43 of the 46 students who lived on
   Nelson's floor during the last school year are now living off campus.

   Of the three who continue to live at Comstock, one is Nelson himself,
   the sole member of the class of 2008 still living in the dormitory.

   Though it's unlikely that the current batch of residents will have any
   extended interaction with Nelson in the coming year, he urged them to
   seek him out if they have any concerns or just want to talk.

   "Just flag me down--we could get some sodas at the union, or
   brainstorm a kick-ass bulletin board theme," Nelson said. "Or I could
   bust out the Minnesotaopoly game. Whatever, I'll be around."

   Nelson concluded his talk by wishing the students an "awesome year,"
   and asking them to please not steal furniture from the lounge and put
   it in their rooms.

   "We're really fortunate to have Marcus," freshman Dave Unger said.
   "From what he told us, he's nothing like other RAs."


   WASHINGTON, DC--The Dove Campaign For Real Beauty formally announced
   Monday its 2008 nominee for president, 28-year-old Julie, a size 10.
   [4]Enlarge Image Julie 

   Naturally beautiful Dove campaign nominee Julie announces her
   candidacy.

   "My self-esteemed colleagues, American voters come in all shapes and
   sizes. When you vote for me, you vote for a celebration of diversity,"
   said Julie, a veterinary assistant from Cedar Rapids, IA, in a
   ceremony at the Washington Hilton. "My presidency will prove that you
   don't have to be a size two to build better relations with China. That
   you don't have to be skinny to lower our skyrocketing trade deficit.
   All you need is the nonjudgmental support of the American people."

   Julie added that, if elected, she would work hard to lower
   self-interest rates, help the nation focus on its strengths rather
   than its weaknesses, and mount a swift, body-positive plan to force
   Iran to abandon its nuclear program.

   The announcement--which coincided with the launch of Dove's new
   collection of intensive firming lotions, creams, and body washes--was
   followed by a gala fund-raiser attended by Real Beauty campaign
   contributors Oprah Winfrey, Katie Couric, and Ellen DeGeneres. The
   event culminated with singer Chaka Khan performing "I'm Every Woman,"
   the official campaign anthem.

   Julie, who emerged as the front-runner after beating out several
   naturally beautiful candidates at a caucus in January--including
   Stacey, an administrative assistant from La Puente, CA, and Marion, a
   homemaker and mother of two from Augusta, GA--took several years of
   Spanish in high school, enjoys riding her bike, and considers french
   fries her favorite food.

   Campaign manager Nanette Villanueva says Julie will run on three
   initiatives: a heightened emphasis on national emotional security,
   broadening cultural perceptions of beauty, and cutting long-term
   capital gains taxes.

   "This is a big country, and it takes a real woman to run it,"
   Villanueva said. "Julie loves her curves just the way they are, and
   that makes her special."

   Villanueva added: "She's got thighs, and that's what this campaign is
   all about."

   A recent poll supports Villanueva's remarks, finding more than 85
   percent of American women are dissatisfied with their bodies, and over
   half are dissatisfied with the U.S. economy.

   Yet Julie's "Healthy Agenda For America" has received only one key
   endorsement: from the powerful life-coach union. And so far only a
   small, vocal minority has come out in support of her candidacy.

   "Americans are simply not ready for a plus-size woman president," said
   political analyst Paul Koskovich. "Even though more than a third of
   the U.S. population is significantly overweight, she still has very
   wide hips."

   Among her supporters, however, Julie is an inspiration.

   "I like a candidate with some meat on her bones," said Baton Rouge,
   LA, resident Len Crewley. "I could look at those big white panties for
   four whole years, sure."

   Villanueva, meanwhile, did not deny that Julie may need to drop in
   size to see her poll numbers rise. "Julie would make a confident,
   self-assured president at any weight," she said. "But we'll look at
   the numbers after the primaries."


   WASHINGTON, DC--Seeking to "narrow the focus of the drug war to the
   true enemy," Congress passed a bill legalizing drug use for the
   gainfully employed Monday.
     Drug War Icon

   "Stockbrokers, lawyers, English professors... you're not the problem
   here," said DEA Administrator Asa Hutchinson at a White House press
   conference. "If you are paying taxes and keeping your yard tidy, we're
   not going to hassle you if you come home from a hard day of work and
   want to enjoy a little pot or blow. But if, on the other hand, you're
   one of these lazy, shiftless types hanging out on the street all day
   looking for your next high, we're coming after you."

   The new law, which goes into effect May 1, will enable police
   departments and courts to focus on what Hutchinson called "the real
   drug offenders."

   "There's no point going after some cardiac surgeon who needs some
   speed to keep him sharp," Hutchinson said. "That's not what the law
   was intended to prevent. But the more destructive drug users--the
   addict who spends his welfare money on crack, the guy in Harlem who
   smokes marijuana--that is something that we as a society must not
   tolerate."
   [4]Enlarge Image Drugs Now Legal If User Is Employed 

   According to Drug Czar John P. Walters, the legislation should have a
   beneficial effect on the health of the American people.

   "As a result of this new law, we expect use of addictive, harmful
   drugs like heroin and crack--those statistically more likely to be
   linked to unemployment--to drop," Walters said. "Meanwhile, decent
   people with good jobs can continue their responsible use of milder
   drugs like E and cocaine in peace."

   Walters said the new legislation will make it significantly easier to
   fight the drug war. The nation's courts will not be clogged with cases
   involving club kids caught with "Vitamin K" or doctors prescribing
   Vicodin to rich housewives. More money can be freed up to build
   prisons to keep chronically unemployed addicts in jail and off the
   streets--the only statistically proven method of improving an addict's
   chance of recovery.

   "Clearly, a lot of people doing drugs simply cannot handle them,"
   Walters said. "We've got to get the drugs out of the hands of these
   people, and give them back to the weekend user."

   The law, Hutchinson noted, will also help protect the nation's poor
   and unemployed, who are not as equipped to handle the effects of drug
   addiction as their more affluent counterparts.

   "Drugs are addictive, and that's true whether you're a ghetto gang
   member or a Harvard-educated entertainment lawyer," Hutchinson said.
   "But the cold, hard truth is, if the ghetto kid gets hooked, he isn't
   going to clean up in a rehab clinic in Palm Springs and maybe even
   become president, now, is he? That's why we need to protect the less
   fortunate among us with the threat of arrest and incarceration."

   The U.S. economy also stands to benefit. Initial surveys indicate that
   the threat of jail will motivate recreational drug users to seek
   employment, reducing the nation's welfare rolls.

   "Legal weed versus jail?" asked Cory Everly, 23, an unemployed Austin,
   TX, singer-songwriter. "I am so totally going down to the sub shop
   today to ask Rudy for my job back."

   Added Everly: "Rudy's my boss... at the sub shop."

   "The new American motto is 'Work Hard, Play Hard,'" Hutchinson said.
   "Do a few bumps of coke at your gay friend's party. Go to your be-in
   or your Lollapalooza rave or whatever it's called this year. But you'd
   better make it in to work on Monday, buddy, or you're going to jail."

   "Sorry if some of my comments have been a bit rambling and unfocused,"
   Hutchinson added. "I'm a little high right now."


   PHILADELPHIA--Frustrated with the Eagles' last-second 16-13 loss to
   the Green Bay Packers last Sunday, and with quarterback Donovan
   McNabb's failure to single-handedly score three touchdowns, prevent
   two of his teammates from muffing punts, or block any of Green Bay's
   field goals, thousands of Philadelphia fans demanded that McNabb win
   an NFL championship for Philadelphia sometime within the next three
   weeks.
   [4]Enlarge Image Donovan McNabb 

   "For the last time: How much longer do we have to wait for McNabb to
   get off his ass?" Eagles fan Jacob Wilkerson said of the five-time Pro
   Bowler in one of over 1,500 messages addressed to the quarterback left
   on the Eagles' voicemail Monday. "Come on McNabb, it's time to finish
   the job. We've been really lenient up to this point, but it's time to
   hunker down and throw the ball. If you think you need to take the
   whole three weeks, that's fine, but we would really like it by next
   Wednesday."

   While many football analysts agree that McNabb has done a phenomenally
   good job in a less-than-ideal situation for the last eight years,
   blaming Philadelphia's failure to advance to the Super Bowl on such
   varied areas as undisciplined offensive execution, inconsistent
   defense, excessive penalties, lackluster pass protection, and almost
   criminally bad play-calling, fans say they are tired of people making
   excuses for McNabb.

   "So what's our crybaby quarterback going to blame next, the NFL
   schedule?" fan Ed Cooke said in a call to Radio 610WIP's Howard Eskin.
   "He's the quarterback. If the team sucks, it's his fault. I think
   McNabb's lucky we're only asking for one Super Bowl in the next few
   weeks, because what he owes us is a three-peat by December."

   Although he felt McNabb performed respectably, completing 15 of 33
   passes for 184 yards with one touchdown and one interception in his
   first game back since tearing his ACL last season, Eagles head coach
   Andy Reid pointed out that his quarterback would have to put up much
   better numbers if he expected to put them in the position to win it
   all by the end of Week 4.

   "This organization expects a lot from Donovan," Reid told a group of
   angry fans Wednesday. "After all, we did use the second overall draft
   pick on him eight years ago, and while he's done really well
   considering we made him run the offense for years with bargain-
   basement wide receivers and running backs that couldn't stay healthy,
   I agree that now is the time to finally get something back on our
   investment."

   "Donovan promised us--the Eagles organization and fans alike--great
   things," said Eagles owner Jeff Lurie, who promised season ticket
   holders he would sit down with McNabb and make fans' wishes known.
   "You have all really been great through all of this. No one could ask
   for a better, more caring, more patient home crowd. The amount of
   restraint you have shown by not, say, throwing McNabb off the top deck
   of Lincoln Financial Field is nothing but admirable."

   "For my part, I can promise that on Sept. 30 I will make sure that
   Donovan has the Lombardi trophy on my desk no later than the end of
   the day," added Lurie, noting that he thought the Eagles' fans were
   the best fans in the world.

   McNabb, whose plans for this week include extra time working with his
   receivers on timing, studying his playbook, and watching film, said he
   would be working as hard as he could for the foreseeable future.

   "Eagles fans are a passionate group who love their team," said McNabb,
   "if not the actual players. It's not like winning a Super Bowl before
   the first month of the season is the hardest thing they've ever asked
   of me. That'd be all those times they asked me to go kill myself."

   "If I work hard and play my game, I'll be fine," McNabb added. "I just
   hope the fans realize that."


   TOKYO--Japanese government officials confirmed Monday that the damage
   wrought on Japan's national infrastructure by the July 16th
   earthquake--particularly on the country's protective force field,
   quantum teleportation system, zero-point fusion energy broadcasting
   grid, and psychodynamic communications network--was severe enough to
   set the technologically advanced island nation back approximately 300
   years to a primitive mid-22nd-century state of existence.

   "Japan finds itself in crisis, with our society and culture
   temporarily reverting to a pre-cyberunification era," said Japanese
   prime minister Shinzo Abe, communicating non-telekinetically for the
   first time in his nearly 150 years of post-cryogenic life. "Though
   many citizens have been limited to algorithm-based emotion detection,
   neutron baths, speed limits below the speed of light, and other
   barbaric inconveniences for over a week now, I promise we will pull
   through."
   [4]Enlarge Image Earthquake Sets Japan Back To 2147 

   Officer Hideo Shimura (left) and his cloned selves attempt to free
   quake victims trapped under rubble.

   Abe rejected persistent calls to simply reboot the damaged nation,
   saying that such a measure could result in the loss of vital data,
   such as Niigata Prefecture and sections of Mount Fuji.

   The quake, which was centered in the bluefin tuna-cloning fields near
   the northwest city of Kashiwazaki, measured bb460.c22/k, or the rough
   equivalent of 6.8 on the less sophisticated Western Richter scale. It
   resulted in the first confirmed human or human-hybrid fatality in
   Japan in over 60 years, and more than 700 injuries. Citizens'
   protective exoskeletons reportedly remained operational through the
   first wave of seismic activity and three of the four aftershocks.
   According to first responders, injured exoskeletons were hastily
   repaired with antiquated third-generation nanotechnology, while
   subatomic robots were released into the bloodstream to fix any
   irregularity they could recognize.

   "The earthquake destroyed our connection with the Trinity Flow, the
   frequency that harmonizes the...you would say, I think,
   'computer'?...with the daemonetic implants in our citizens'
   overbrains," scientist Hiroshi Ishiguro-Prime of the TechnoDiet told
   Western reporters.

   Teleportation of food and water remains at a standstill as technicians
   in Kobe continue to fix the extensive damage to the
   eight-million-yottabyte mainframe computer, a four-by-three-inch
   quantum femtoprocessor responsible for accessing and fulfilling the
   thoughts and desires of all Japanese.
   [5]Enlarge Image Quake victims 

   Quake victims wander the streets in search of synthetic water and a
   neural implant charging station.

   The United States' offer of $20 million and a shipment of steel,
   tractors, forklifts, and cranes was politely declined.

   The prime minister said that the greatest effort would be exerted on
   rebuilding the Procross Buster Quasigravitic Lensing Frame, the motive
   force behind Japan's automated network of roads, aerobuildings, and
   levitation canals. The total cost of the project, the prime minister
   speculated, is somewhere in the 70 trillion range, a majority of
   which will be underwritten by Nippon Tertius, a transubsidiary
   civilization in the Haltropic galaxy.

   Meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of people throughout Japan continue
   to live in desperate circumstances. Those whose metahabitats were
   destroyed in the quake are being issued replacements, though citizens
   are expected to grow them themselves. Kyoto resident Aiko Shunji
   criticized the homes' reconfiguring walls and blink-controlled climate
   as "relics of the past" that are "barely suitable for humans, let
   alone for members of Japan's Glorious and Peaceful Ninth Recension."

   "The older generations can talk all they want about the virtues of
   eating meals in pill form and taking the moving sidewalk instead of
   the wormhole, but this is just plain deprivation, and it sucks,"
   Shunji, 92, said. "It doesn't help that recovery efforts have been so
   slow. Why is it taking so long for officials to reconnect something as
   basic as the Neural Net?"

   Abe reassured citizens that the disaster was merely a temporary
   setback.

   "It should only be a matter of days before the Asahi Ultima Crisis
   chronotriggered reversion engine is once more online," Abe said.
   "Citizens of Japan, I promise you: Once our folded-space-time
   technology is again functional, this whole earthquake will never have
   happened."


   BOSTON--Nobel Peace Prize winner and Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel
   said in an interview Monday that he recently revisited his debut work,
   Night, nearly 50 years after its publication and was "absolutely
   horrified" at the amateurish quality of the memoir.
   [4]Enlarge Image Elie Wiesel 

   "Why didn't my editor do something?"

   Elie Wiesel, author

   "It was painful to read," Wiesel said of the story of his journey from
   his childhood home to the Nazi death camp Auschwitz. "I know every
   great author says they hate their first book, but frankly, I'm
   embarrassed this ever made it into print. The sentence structure is
   artless, the plot is repetitive at best--and the constant mentioning
   of how I felt abandoned by God? What was the point of all that?"

   Wiesel said that, although Night is not his only work that deals with
   his personal experience of the Holocaust, it is by far his "most
   humiliating."

   "I got so wrapped up in what I was writing, I couldn't separate myself
   from the subject matter," said Wiesel, adding that the eight-page
   account of the train ride from Gleiwitz to Buchenwald could have been
   trimmed down considerably to focus on the essential events. "I just
   assumed everything about my life was so fascinating, people would want
   to read about it. I was so nave."

   Wiesel went on to criticize Night for lacking the subtlety of his
   later writings, claiming the use of foreshadowing was predictable and
   the description of the harrowing gas chamber selection process felt
   "clichd...like bad daytime TV melodrama."
     Elie Wiesel Book

   "I simply seized on this 'dehumanizing people through starvation and
   fear' angle and beat it into the ground," said Wiesel, who has learned
   over the years to "show, not tell" in his writing. "Rereading it now
   is absolute hell."

   The author also spoke harshly of Night's publisher, Arthur Wang, who
   encouraged Wiesel to write the book nearly 10 years after he was
   liberated from the concentration camps. He said Wang kept pressuring
   him to publish the story, while ignoring the inherent horror in
   Wiesel's prose.

   "[Wang] didn't even have the decency to tell me my writing was
   completely self- absorbed," Wiesel said. "He should have stopped this
   book before it got out of hand. Somebody, anybody should have
   intervened before it was too late."

   Night was a recent Oprah's Book Club selection, selling more than a
   million copies in only a few months. It returned to the No. 1 spot on
   The New York Times best-seller list, introducing a whole new
   generation of readers to what Wiesel calls "shoddily written, college
   workshop garbage."

   Despite initially agreeing to the Oprah deal, Wiesel has told
   reporters he now regrets not revising the manuscript before its new
   publication.

   "I would have at least liked to put in an interesting dream sequence,
   and extend this part here where my dying father calls out my name with
   his final breath," said Wiesel, holding a heavily annotated paperback
   copy of the memoir. "I can't believe another million people are going
   to read this atrocity. We're just repeating the same terrible mistakes
   of the past."

   Added Wiesel, "God, I wish I were dead."

   Although he told interviewers his embarrassment over the memoir will
   continue to haunt him "during every waking hour," Wiesel hopes that
   those who have already read his book will "just forget the whole thing
   ever happened."


   CULVER CITY, CA--Writers of a popular prime-time CBS sitcom spent the
   last three weeks making late-stage script adjustments to work its
   female lead's recent abortion into its storyline, sources close to the
   show revealed Monday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Actress 

   Sumner with co-star Carl Hubbard.

   In the upcoming episode of Same Difference, taped late last week and
   scheduled to air in May, star Kirsten Sumner's character, Trish
   O'Connell, the sharp-tongued but beautiful wife of portly Chicago
   bread-truck driver Greg O'Connell, played by Carl Hubbard, will reveal
   to her husband she was pregnant and had an abortion without his
   knowledge. Trish's revelation comprises the secondary, or "B," story
   of the episode, in which Greg eats a meatball sandwich against his
   wife's wishes.

   "It would've been insulting to our viewers if we never addressed the
   fact that Kirsten is so obviously post-abortion," executive producer
   Aaron Karsch said. "We did consider shooting around the abortion and
   using lighting tricks and strategically placed plants to cover up her
   uterus. But everyone would have been able to tell anyhow, so we
   figured we might as well use it to the show's advantage."
   [5]Enlarge Image Producers 

   Producers Larry Krespie and Aaron Karsch dissect the anatomy of a
   sitcom.

   Sumner, who decided to terminate her pregnancy after several weeks of
   emotional deliberation, reportedly informed the show's executive
   producers about it earlier this month. Though the abortion posed a
   significant challenge for Same Difference's 12 writers, who were given
   the task of addressing it in a way that would not disrupt the show's
   lighthearted pace or contradict Sumner's on-screen persona, Karsch
   said such developments "come with the territory."

    "When you're writing a successful sitcom, sometimes the actors'
   personal lives find a way to creep on set and you just have to adapt,"
   Karsch said. "Kirsten's around that age when a lot of actresses start
   thinking about having abortions, so I guess it's not that surprising."

   After viewing the rough edits of the new scenes, Karsch said he
   "couldn't be happier" with the decision to include Sumner's abortion
   in the show, and expects the episode will be Same Difference's most
   popular since "High Definition," a 2002 episode in which Greg bought a
   big-screen TV.

   "It wasn't easy, but in the end, we got some very solid material out
   of it--the plotline stayed true to the O'Connells' relationship while
   still being entertaining," said co- executive producer Larry Krespie,
   adding that, thanks to the show's resourceful writing staff, Sumner's
   evacuated womb may be "the best thing that ever happened to Same
   Difference."

   Despite his initial skepticism about how the new abortion storyline
   would play to the female 36 to 49 demographic, Krespie was ultimately
   won over after viewing the rough edits.

   "Kirsten did some brilliant acting," said Krespie, who called Sumner's
   portrayal of a woman who had recently had an abortion "spot-on." "Our
   show does a lot of quiet, observational humor, and I think anyone
   who's had an abortion would be hard-pressed not to relate to, and get
   a chuckle out of, Trish's situation."

   Continued Krespie: "Kirsten really got into the mind of her character,
   even in the physical-comedy scenes, like when she was trying to avoid
   Greg and get out of the house to get the abortion. And later in the
   packed abortion clinic, when she mistakes the number 81 she received
   from the receptionist for 18, and finds out she has to wait much
   longer for her abortion. But it all leads to a nice, poignant ending
   when both characters realize they should have been honest with each
   other all along--Trish with her pregnancy, and Greg with his
   sandwich."


   FORT WORTH, TX--Despite having been on the job for nine months,
   RadioShack CEO Julian Day said Monday that he still has "no idea" how
   the home electronics store manages to stay open.
     RadioShack CEO

   CEO Julian Day

   "There must be some sort of business model that enables this company
   to make money, but I'll be damned if I know what it is," Day said.
   "You wouldn't think that people still buy enough strobe lights and
   extension cords to support an entire nationwide chain, but I guess
   they must, or I wouldn't have this desk to sit behind all day."

   The retail outlet boasts more than 6,000 locations in the United
   States, and is known best for its wall-sized displays of
   obscure-looking analog electronics components and its notoriously
   desperate, high-pressure sales staff. Nevertheless, it ranks as a
   Fortune 500 company, with gross revenues of over $4.5 billion and
   fiscal quarter earnings averaging tens of millions of dollars.

   "Have you even been inside of a RadioShack recently?" Day asked. "Just
   walking into the place makes you feel vaguely depressed and alienated.
   Maybe our customers are at the mall anyway and don't feel like driving
   to Best Buy? I suppose that's possible, but still, it's just...weird."
   [4]Enlarge Image RadioShack 

   A RadioShack store that somehow manages to bring in enough paying
   customers to turn a profit.

   After taking over as CEO, Day ordered a comprehensive, top-down review
   of RadioShack's administrative operations, inventory and purchasing,
   suppliers, demographics, and marketing strategies. He has also
   diligently pored over weekly budget reports, met with investors, taken
   numerous conference calls with regional managers about "circulars or
   flyers or something," and even spent hours playing with the company's
   "baffling" 200-In-One electronics kit. Yet so far none of these things
   have helped Day understand the moribund company's apparent allure.

   "Even the name 'RadioShack'--can you imagine two less appealing words
   placed next to one another?" Day said. "What is that, some kind of
   World War II terminology? Are ham radio operators still around, even?
   Aren't we in the digital age?"

   "Well, our customers are out there somewhere, and thank God they are,"
   Day added.

   One of Day's theories about RadioShack's continued solvency involves
   wedding DJs, emergency cord replacement, and off-brand wireless
   telephones. Another theory entails countless RadioShack gift cards
   that sit unredeemed in their recipients' wallets. Day has even
   conjectured that the store is "still coasting on" an enormous fortune
   made from remote-control toy cars in the mid-1970s.
     RadioShack Revenues

   Day admitted, however, that none of these theories seems particularly
   plausible.

   "I once went into a RadioShack location incognito in order to gauge
   customer service," Day said. "It was about as inviting as a visit to
   the DMV. For the life of me, I couldn't see anything I wanted to buy.
   Finally, I figured I'd pick up some Enercell AA batteries, though
   truthfully they're not appreciably cheaper than the name brands."

   "I know one thing," Day continued. "If Sony and JVC start including
   gold-tipped cable cords with their products, we're screwed."

   In the cover letter to his December 2006 report to investors, "Radio
   Shack: Still Here In The 21st Century," Day wrote that he had no
   reason to believe that the coming year would not be every bit as good
   as years past, provided that people kept on doing things much the same
   way they always had.

   Despite this cheerful boosterism, Day admitted that nothing has
   changed during his tenure and he doesn't exactly know what he can do
   to improve the chain.

   "I'd like to capitalize on the store's strong points, but I honestly
   don't know what they are," Day said. "Every location is full of
   bizarre adapters, random chargers, and old boom boxes, and some sales
   guy is constantly hovering over you. It's like walking into your
   grandpa's basement. You always expect to see something cool, but it
   never delivers."

   Added Day: "I may never know the answer. No matter how many times I
   punch the sales figures into this crappy Tandy desk calculator, it
   just doesn't add up."


   BOSTON--Now that Manny Ramirez has reported to camp and the
   spring-training opener against Minnesota is in the books, Red Sox fans
   are turning their attention to the awesome power rumored to dwell
   within much-touted off-season pitching acquisition Daisuke
   Matsuzaka--a man who many say possesses pitching powers and techniques
   beyond the comprehension of mortal fans.
   [4]Enlarge Image Red Sox Fans 

   Matsuzaka's picture from the 2007 Red Sox Media Guide.

   "Daisuke is the pitching master!" said Boston Globe baseball columnist
   Bob Ryan, hopping from one foot to the other as he described videotape
   footage of Matsuzaka's otherworldly pitching power and control
   banishing a flock of evil, conniving, left-handed-batting carp-spirits
   to the netherworld during a 2003 Seibu Lions game. "His Ultimate
   Galactic Dragon Gyroball Pitch Power Explosion breaks three feet
   inside before cutting sharply toward the dugout, where falsehood and
   cowardice are forced to shrink before it!"

   Since before Boston signed Matsuzaka to a six-year, $52 million
   contract last November, the city's baseball fans were inundated with
   incredible tales of the Japanese ace's pitching prowess, many of which
   seemed too good to be believed. Nevertheless, most Red Sox fans find
   it hard to contain their excitement at the thought of finally seeing
   Matsuzaka's skills on display.

   "Battle on, Daisuke! Wither their spirits with your mystical Four
   Winds Split-Finger Shottu-jitsu! Repel their cruel affronts with your
   Triple-Star Cut-Fastball Technique of the Joyous Uplifting Dynamo,
   clocked at a respectable 96 miles per hour! And baffle their
   comprehension and deceive in turn their deceitful hearts with your
   Two-Seam Shadow-Strike Clouded-Eye Shinobi Sinker!" said 44-year-old
   accountant and spring-training attendee Roger Fettleman, quoting the
   back of Matsuzaka's Red Sox rookie card almost word for word as he
   watched the right-hander warm up in the bullpen before his first
   Grapefruit League start. "Truly, it is within your grasp to go 16-4
   with an ERA under 4.00!"

   Fettleman is hardly alone among Boston fans in having both his spirits
   and his expectations raised to unusual levels by the seven-year
   veteran of Japan's top leagues. Besides the talk surrounding his
   alleged gyroball, rumors have circulated about his uncanny ability to
   read a batter, his cleverness in using his fastballs as his out
   pitches instead of over-relying on breaking balls, and his almost
   inexhaustible wellspring of ki, or spirit-energy.

   "If what we've heard is correct, then Matsuzaka indeed possesses a
   Power Level of well over 9,000," said ESPN's Peter Gammons, struggling
   to contain his excitement on Tuesday's edition of Baseball Tonight.
   "Over 9,000! Which, of course, is only to be expected of the
   ballplayer whom sources say descended into the Underworld to spit in
   the flaming eye of the Lord of Hell and steal the secret power of the
   Onikaze, or 'demon-storm' pitch, which tails away nicely from both
   lefties and righties."

   Despite the constant adulation and high expectations, the 27-year-old
   right-hander has been modest when dealing with the press.

   "Boston fans are the greatest fans in the world," Matsuzaka told
   reporters through an interpreter upon being asked if he had left Japan
   out of fears that his Ultimate Galactic Dragon Gyroball Pitch Power
   Explosion might split Mount Fuji, strike the rising sun from the sky,
   and awaken the wrathful atomic lizard Gojira. "I'm very happy and
   excited to be a member of the Red Sox."


   WASHINGTON--In a stunning reversal of more than 200 years of
   conventional wisdom, failure--traditionally believed to be an
   unacceptable outcome for a wide range of tasks and goals--is now
   increasingly seen as a viable alternative to success, sources
   confirmed Tuesday.

   "Americans have always been told that they should succeed at all
   costs," Emory University sociologist Dr. Lauren Hodge said. "But based
   on new evidence, this can no longer be called true--if, in fact, it
   ever was. As failure continues to dominate the American landscape,
   this mantra must be overruled."
   [4]Enlarge Image Failure Now An Option 

   "We have no choice but to revoke failure's non-optional status,
   effective immediately," Hodge continued. "Now all citizens will be
   able to step back, stare down the hardship and difficulty they will
   face in the pursuit of success, and say, 'Fuck that--this isn't worth
   it.'"

   Overturning one of America's most cherished and oft-repeated aphorisms
   is expected to have far-reaching implications for the future of human
   ambition. Some predict that a majority of the U.S. populace will now
   opt out of its previous obligation to give it 110 percent, and, in the
   coming weeks and months, give as little as 45 percent. For
   underachieving Americans, that number is expected to drop to as low as
   5 percent by March.

   A recent Interior Department report found that, although failure was
   not officially an option until this Tuesday, there have in fact been
   hundreds of billions of cases of it over the past two centuries,
   culminating in Fort Collins, CO high school junior Tim Kemp's failing
   grade on a physics exam last month.

   Many scholars now believe that such failures have historically been
   obscured by optimistic slogans and so-called positive thinking,
   neither of which, according to the report, has had a verifiable
   effect: Americans' overall failure rate went up nearly 2,350 percent
   over the past decade, with 1,435,643 instances of failure reported
   last Sunday alone.

   "In retrospect, failure becoming an option was inevitable," historian
   Michael Lambeau said. "The only difference is that now Americans can
   choose, without fear of being ostracized by society, to quit long
   before getting ahead."
   [5]Enlarge Image Failure Chart 

   Lambeau predicted a substantial decrease in the number of everyday
   Americans who fear failure, and a dramatic rise in those who actually
   embrace the once-reviled stench of defeat and disappointment.

   Other data seem to confirm the Interior Department's findings. A
   recent CBS News/New York Times poll revealed that 64 percent of
   Americans are "perfectly comfortable" with coming up just short, 43
   percent are content to try only once rather than try, try again, and
   an overwhelming 95 percent admitted that after falling down, they now
   prefer to stay down.

   Only 4 percent indicated having "some interest" in applying their
   balls to the wall.

   Though the broad new trend touches all 300 million citizens, experts
   said that sports coaches, CEOs of large corporations, U.S. Army
   commanders overseeing large-scale military operations, and anyone who
   often starts sentences with the word "gentlemen" will be most
   affected.

   While the ability to openly fail without detrimental consequence has
   been embraced by a majority of the population, some, such as social
   anthropologist Dr. Richard Groaten, claim it will have negative
   long-term effects for the country.

   "Sixty years ago, even mentioning that you might willingly give it
   less than your all would have been unthinkable," Groaten said. "It's a
   disgrace that modern Americans are more inclined to simply not get
   going, especially when the said going could be classified as 'tough.'"

   "I don't feel like doing this interview anymore," Groaten added.


   YOUNGSTOWN, OH--Jason Baumer, a fancy little gent who is apparently
   too good to enjoy a regular cup of coffee, drank a cup of tea Sunday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Fancy Man 

   The fancy man rests a placemat beneath the precious tea to protect his
   beautiful table from any errant drips.

   The 29-year-old web designer prepared and consumed his precious tea,
   which is imported from some la-di-da foreign country, at about 10:30
   a.m with the loving attention of a brittle, shawl-wearing spinster.

   "I normally have some Earl Grey in the morning," said Baumer,
   referring to a kind of tea named after a guy who used to run around
   England in a powdered wig and fruity tights. "Sometimes I have toast
   [and jam] too. Or just a bowl of cereal when I'm in a rush."

   Instead of simply heating a mug of water in the microwave, Baumer used
   a hoity-toity copper-bottomed tea kettle, which His Lordship
   reportedly purchased at Pier One Imports in 2003 for the express
   purpose of tea-making.

   Baumer's beverage is made with the use of a tea bag, a prissy little
   package of delicately scented, finely shredded leaves wrapped in a
   thin gauze and festooned with a bright yellow label tied to a string
   so that the user need not scald her tender digits in the hot water.
   Baumer, like all the other hens and dandies known to enjoy tea, must
   "steep" the drink, which is a term for gently lowering the bag into a
   teacup holding the hot water.

   On this occasion, Baumer removed the tea bag from the dainty brew and
   added one dollop of honey made by his friends the honeybees and a
   splash of milk straight from his mama's precious teat. But even with
   these additions, the tea was still too hot for Princess Jason's
   sensitive mouth, causing him to softly blow on the beverage with his
   lips pursed together like a little rosebud.

   "I like to do the crossword puzzle while I have my tea," said Baumer,
   making it easy to imagine him wearing a bonnet and a frilly pink
   dress. "Or listen to the radio."

   Our precious baby Baumer makes nearly daily use of his fragile
   porcelain teacup, which he balances between feeble thumb and
   forefinger to drink his beverage with prim sips. He often places the
   cup on a special little plate that goes with the cup.

   Baumer reportedly loves his tea so much that he knows about all the
   different kinds. He admitted to drinking a special type of tea at
   night called "chamomile," which is made out of pretty flowers.
   According to Baumer, the caffeine in regular tea robs him of his
   treasured beauty sleep if he drinks it too late in the day.

   Those close to the tea-sipper have known about Baumer's refined
   predilection for hot beverages for years, but shockingly have not
   ostracized him for it.

   "We sometimes have tea when we read the Sunday paper in bed," said
   Baumer's girlfriend, Laurel Altman, who would not comment on whether
   Baumer also stages tea parties with an assortment of dolls and teddy
   bears.

   Baumer, as wrapped up as he was in his special soothing drink for old
   maids, was nevertheless able to make it out to a local park later that
   morning in order to "enjoy the nice weather before it gets too cold."


   OTSEGO, MI--While she may not be making the nightly news or gracing
   the covers of Time and Newsweek, 46-year-old nursing-home worker
   Barbara Louise Huxley is a dedicated, ruthless killer. But in today's
   male-dominated world of remorseless slaughter, Huxley has been forced
   to murder twice as many innocent victims just to gain the public
   exposure and foster the widespread panic her male counterparts
   routinely enjoy.
   [4]Enlarge Image Female Serial Killer Has To Work Twice As Hard To
   Achieve Notoriety 

   Huxley in the nursing home where her hard work and horrifying murders
   have gone unrecognized for years.

   Huxley, who smothered her first elderly patient at the ambitious age
   of 27, got into murder at a time when a woman slowly draining the life
   from a fellow human being was almost unthinkable. Seven more slow and
   methodical choking deaths followed, and though her heartless crimes
   were frequently passed over by local newspapers and her male
   supervisors at the nursing home, Huxley was determined to prove that
   she could be just as brutal and unfeeling as serial killers of the
   opposite sex.

   Today, almost 20 years and countless cold-blooded slayings later,
   Huxley continues to take the lives of others in silence--simply
   because of her gender.

   "After spending so long watching deranged men climb straight to the
   top of the FBI's Most Wanted list, it was hard to get up the energy to
   go into work every day and suffocate another frail diabetic," said
   Huxley, who claims her ability to take human lives without the
   slightest emotional response has gone overlooked by the chauvinistic
   news media and biased higher courts time and time again. "I started to
   think, 'What's the point? What am I doing here?'"

   Added Huxley: "I just want to be treated like any other homicidal
   sociopath."

   Like many young women who simply want the chance to kill as many
   victims as possible before being apprehended by the police, Huxley has
   faced fierce resistance at every turn, whether from police officials,
   eyewitnesses, or often, her own flailing victims.

   "There's nothing more upsetting than strangling someone with surgical
   tubing, only to have them look at you in shock and disbelief," Huxley
   said. "It's like, 'Why are you so surprised? Is it because I'm a
   woman?!'"

   According to Huxley, of the 11 murderers given serial-killer
   distinction in the five years before her arrest, only one was
   female--a woman who was eventually dismissed by a male judge as "not
   possessing the mental facilities required to understand the charges
   against her."

   In addition, the few women who have been granted the distinction have
   received, on average, fewer than seven years of jail time for every 10
   years offered to male serial killers with equivalent body counts.

   Dr. Nancy Trisher, a criminal psychologist at the University of
   Pennsylvania, attributes much of the gender divide to societal
   perceptions of female murderers.

   "People are still uncomfortable with, and often feel threatened by,
   the idea of a woman slitting open a stranger's throat and watching him
   drown in his own blood," Trisher wrote in her most recent book,
   Shattering the Blood-Spattered Glass Ceiling. "Many individuals,
   especially men, consider women too emotional or too passive, and
   assume they are happier drowning their own children at home than going
   out to decapitate vagrants and college students."

   In the meantime, Huxley and a half a dozen other women like her must
   continue to burn and mutilate their victims without the media and
   law-enforcement attention their gruesome acts rightfully deserve.

   "Even when the news finally gets around to reporting on us, it's only
   to talk about how 'rare' it is to see women do the awful things we
   do," Huxley said. "It's never because we're just good murderers."

   As she patiently waits for the long-delayed public outcry over her
   unspeakable crimes, Huxley can only hope she will soon secure the kind
   of lasting infamy already enjoyed by such men as Jeffrey Dahmer,
   Charles Manson, and Dennis Rader. An inspiration to every young girl
   with no regard for life, Huxley dreams of a day when society looks at
   her and sees not just a woman, but a bloodthirsty monster.

   Isiah Thomas

   NEW YORK--A meeting held at Madison Square Garden Wednesday between
   New York Knicks ownership and head coach Isiah Thomas was interrupted
   more than half a dozen times by "Fire Isiah" chants which came at
   various points throughout the two-hour-long discussion, Knicks
   officials reported.

   The mocking chants--which sources speculate were inspired by Thomas'
   conviction for sexual harassment, his lax punishment of guard Stephon
   Marbury for abandoning the team last week, and the consistent failure
   of an overpaid roster that Thomas himself is responsible for
   recruiting--could be overheard from outside the boardroom's entrance,
   and were regularly followed by five claps: two slower ones followed by
   three in rapid succession.

   "Fire I-si-ah!" board members shouted in unison as Thomas reportedly
   tried to explain that his team was, in fact, making incremental but
   tangible progress. "Fire I-si-ah!"

   According to Madison Square Garden L.P.'s Vice Chairman Hank Ratner,
   the meeting started on an icy note when administrative assistant
   Sheryl Jones opened the conference room doors and announced Thomas'
   name, inspiring the entire room to erupt into a chorus of loud boos
   that lasted for nearly one minute.

   Ratner said the boos were immediately followed by what was in fact the
   second "Fire Isiah" chant, the first of which began when Thomas called
   to inform the Knicks front office that he would be five minutes late
   for the meeting.

   "If you would have asked me four years ago if Isiah Thomas would be
   booed mercilessly every time he took the floor in his home office, I
   would have said you were nuts," Knicks primary owner James Dolan said.
   "Now? I wouldn't be shocked if this happens every work day."

   Even when the chants subsided, Dolan said, Thomas still experienced
   other forms of hostility from all 15 board members in attendance,
   including multiple rounds of sarcastic clapping when Thomas talked
   optimistically about his team's four wins, several thrown C-cell
   batteries that narrowly missed Thomas' head, and intermittent shouts
   of "You suck," "My 5-year-old daughter could do a better coaching
   job," and "Die."

   Ratner stated that, as Thomas continued to speak concerning the
   Knicks' chances to secure one of the eight playoff spots in the NBA's
   Eastern Conference, many at the meeting used the "thunder sticks" they
   received for free at the offices' front entrance in an apparent
   attempt to distract Thomas from his train of thought.

   In addition, when Thomas defended his coaching strategy and failed to
   offer any suggestions as to how he could immediately make the Knicks a
   better basketball team, frustrated board members began a
   30-second-long "asshole" chant.

   Those board members too upset and flabbergasted to shout any
   obscenities reportedly buried their faces in their hands, slouched
   back in their leather chairs, sighed, and repeated "God, we suck" in
   defeated tones.

   Though Thomas' expression remained stoic throughout the meeting, New
   York Rangers general manager Glen Sather said Thomas appeared slightly
   fazed when the president of MSG Sports Steve Mills walked in carrying
   an Isiah Thomas effigy he made at home prior to the meeting.

   "[The effigy] had a noose tied around its neck," said Sather, adding
   that the doll was dressed in a white collared shirt that had "Devil"
   written across its chest. "You could tell that Isiah saw it out of the
   corner of his eye, and when Steve hung it from the office ceiling,
   Isiah's voice briefly cracked. But, he managed to keep it together,
   telling us that all the team needed was a little more time to gel, and
   that the players hadn't been given a chance to get into a real rhythm
   yet."

   "That's the type of cool you need to be a successful coach in New
   York," Sather said. "I mean, you'd think so, anyway. Right?"

   When the meeting ultimately let out, Thomas experienced further
   harassment from upper management during the post-meeting press
   conference.

   "This comes with the territory of being a part of a professional
   sports team in New York City," Thomas said as Dolan, who was
   reportedly drunk during the entire second half of the meeting, exposed
   his backside to the coach and all media present. "You just have to
   block it all out."

   Dolan later apologized to Thomas for his childish actions and assured
   him his job was safe.


   DEARBORN, MI--Still reeling from a $12.6 billion loss last year and a
   steadily declining customer base, the Ford Motor Company announced
   plans Monday to invest its entire third- and fourth-quarter
   manufacturing and advertising budgets into reintroducing the Model T,
   one of history's best known and most innovative car models.
   [4]Enlarge Image Ford Model T 

   A Ford spokesman poses with the once-revolutionary automobile in a
   Michigan showroom.

   "Today's drivers want to get in touch with the experience of sitting
   behind the wheel of a finely crafted, planetary-gear vehicle with
   manual crank shafts," said Ford's president and CEO Alan Mulally, who
   expects the first line of Model Ts to be available for sale by
   mid-December and safe for driving as soon as it is neither snowing nor
   raining. "We're getting back to the basics, bringing the quality and
   elegance of 1908 into the 21st century. We want to show the country
   why, at one point, every single car driven in America was a Ford."

   Although market analysts have for months predicted that the struggling
   company would sell off its less successful subsidiaries and expand
   into hybrid cars in order to remain economically viable, the
   Michigan-based auto producer decided instead to open 12 new factories
   and retrofit another seven at a cost of more than $100 million in
   order to produce parts such as the oil-lamp headlights and wooden
   artillery wheels for the two-speed Model T.

   While Mulally admits that the initial cost of producing the so-called
   "Tin Lizzies" will be an enormous investment, the company will save
   millions of dollars by paying workers on the man-powered assembly
   lines--once considered a revolutionary breakthrough--wages at 1911
   rates. Working in back-to-back 10-hour shifts, employees should be
   capable of producing 20 to 25 units per week, meaning the 32,000 Model
   Ts that Mulally believes will lift the company out of near bankruptcy
   will be on the road within six years.
   [5]Enlarge Image Model T Jump 

   "Frankly, I think we've gotten so concerned with adding frills like
   GPS navigational systems, seat belts, and exhaust pipes that we've
   forgotten what really matters: open-air bench seating," Mulally said.
   "We promise that each Model T that comes off the line will last much,
   much longer than today's cars. Face it, we just don't make them like
   we used to."

   Though the company planned to make the announcement this spring, it
   was delayed after a number of parts could not be secured from their
   original, early-20th-century suppliers--many of which, after two world
   wars and one major economic depression, no longer exist. Throughout
   the process, Mulally personally spent two hours on the phone trying to
   track down rubber from the Belgian Congo, and sent top executives all
   the way to Mandalay to find a company that still produces magneto
   generator parts.

   But despite the Model T's need for coil boxes, crank ratchets, and
   spring shackles that cost nearly five times as much as today's
   standard auto components, Ford executives are hopeful that a
   combination of the automobiles' "interchangeable parts" design and low
   $950 sticker price will propel the company back to the success it
   enjoyed a century ago.  In an effort to convince the American consumer
   that automobiles are "not just for the scion sons of wealthy robber
   barons anymore," Ford will unveil a massive advertising blitz this
   fall, including a series of black-and-white ads, short news strips
   shown between double features at the nation's leading silent-film
   houses, and so-called "barkers" who will shout the Model T's praises
   through megaphones on street corners across the country.

   "Everyone from schoolchildren to quiz-show participants has been
   hearing the name 'Model T' for almost a century now," Ford marketing
   director Patricia Curtis said. "You can't buy that kind of name
   recognition."

   To compete with the Model T, several other major auto manufacturers
   have begun reproducing their own classic car lines, including
   Chrysler's DeSoto, Karl Benz's original Motorwagen, and BMW's World
   War II-era German U-boat.


   NEW YORK--Troy Bartell, 22, former editor-in-chief of Boston
   University's student newspaper The Daily Free Press, said Monday that
   his once-prestigious paper is in "free-fall," and is now printing only
   "ridiculous, brutally incompetent shit."

   "This is lousy, lousy journalism," said Bartell, who still scours the
   paper's online edition for typos despite graduating in May 2006. "The
   way they covered the School of Management's Casino Night this year was
   a slap in the face. Complete and utter fluff. Don't tell me what the
   people were wearing, damn it--tell me who won the raffle at the end of
   the night, and what the prizes were."
   [4]Enlarge Image Former Editor 

   Bartell reads some bullshit about the new DVD players in the College
   of Communication.

   "You can tell that the new people onboard just don't give a shit, and
   believe me, that sort of thing starts at the top," Bartell continued.

   Bartell, a journalism major who was promoted to editor-in-chief  in
   January 2005 after one year as Campus Affairs editor, now works as a
   part-time receptionist for a Manhattan public-relations firm. Bartell
   had a distinguished career at the Free Press, breaking the news of the
   appointment of a new English Department chairman in 2004, and writing
   a three-part series on the revamped trash-can design in the student
   union.

   Believing that his tenure "set a strong, rigorous example for quality
   news writing," Bartell, who often travels back to Boston to attend
   college parties thrown by members of his old newspaper, is saddened
   that none of the staff has followed his example. Everything in the
   paper, he claims, from the coverage of the school's annual Activities
   Expo to the campus radio station-sponsored date auction, has been
   "complete bullshit."

    "Without fail, every time I look at the Free Press, I just cringe
   with embarrassment," Bartell said. "Their reporting is so lax, they
   might as well print propaganda straight from the BU president's
   office. Oh Christ, don't give them any ideas, Bartell."

   Bartell was particularly critical of the coverage of the School of
   Engineering's "Welcome Back" Barbecue in September, saying that none
   of the hard-hitting questions were asked, such as whether vegetarian
   alternatives were available.

   Bartell's fears of a decline in journalistic integrity were further
   augmented by a profile of the new dining-services director, which
   failed to include information about the recent increase in meal-plan
   fees and the new two-pieces-of-fruit-per-student policy.

   "[New Editor-In-Chief] Casey [Aclin] has been a real disappointment,"
   Bartell said. "In a story last Monday, instead of saying 'Dean of
   Students Charles Baker,' it just said 'Dean Baker.' That's a blatant
   disregard of Free Press style rules that never would have flown on my
   watch."

   "Never," he continued.

   But the lowest point, Bartell said, came in December during the
   Student Union Assembly elections.

    "I still have a lot of sources at the school--a lot," Bartell said.
   "From Day One of that fraudulent campaign, more than half of the
   candidates had been illegally leafletting the student union, which
   could result in fines. And what did my paper do with that bombshell?
   One graph in one story, no more. Talk about burying the lede. Where's
   the drive, the curiosity here?"

   The former editor-in-chief has repeatedly volunteered to return to the
   Free Press offices and educate the staff on proper news-writing and
   copyediting techniques, but no one has yet taken him up on his offers.

   Bartell said he's concerned for the future of the publication that he
   described as "a labor of love that sustained me through my college
   years."

   "At this rate, I wouldn't be surprised if the entire student body
   began ignoring the news content all together, and only picked up the
   Free Press to do the crossword puzzle," Bartell said.


   BOSTON--Moments after the New York Yankees continued a month-long
   stretch that has seen them climb from the bottom of the AL East to
   pull within a once unfathomable four games of the first-place Red Sox
   by defeating the Baltimore Orioles Monday night, stunned and enraged
   baseball fans across America took a moment to shake their heads in
   disbelief and curse dejectedly at the relentless inevitability of
   Yankee glory.
   [4]Enlarge Image Fucking Yankees 

   "Fucking Yankees," said Marshfield, MA resident and longtime Red Sox
   fan Lawrence Broberg, echoing the sentiments of thousands of men and
   woman across the nation. "Every year. Every goddamn year."

   The Yankees, coming off a decisive three-game sweep of the
   Central-leading Indians, have won nine out of their last 10 games,
   catapulting them to the top of the wild-card standings, restoring the
   team's infuriating confidence, and instilling a sinking sense of
   impending misery among all non-Yankee fans.

   "It's like they can't lose," said Connecticut resident Gerry DiCenzo,
   who could only watch helplessly as the Yankees overcame a late Orioles
   rally to win their fourth straight. "They literally cannot lose.
   Suddenly no one can beat the Yankees. The Red Sox suck. The Orioles
   suck. Everyone sucks. Everyone suddenly sucks when they play the
   Yankees."

   "Unbelievable," DiCenzo added. "Un-fucking-believable."

   Sparked by the recent returns of phenom starter Phil Hughes and
   slugger Jason Giambi, the Yankees have their full roster healthy and
   together for the first time since April, which fans around the world
   have solemnly realized is perfect timing for the stretch run.

   "It seems like every time the [sports] ticker comes up, they're
   winning 10-1," said Chicago resident Jeremy Killian. "You knew this
   was going to happen. You knew. Right when they got Clemens back, you
   fucking knew."

   "Every time," Killian continued. "Every time with this fucking team.
   It's the same damn thing every time. You just, they never go away. You
   can't give them an inch. You cannot give them one inch."

   "And Jeter..." Killian added, watching as the Yankee shortstop drove
   home the winning run in the bottom of the ninth with a softly tapped
   ball that barely dribbled past the pitcher's mound. "Fucking Jeter."

   As the Yankees remain hot in August, the team continues to rely on GM
   Brian Cashman's strategy of stockpiling cheap, young pitching and
   assembling a group of talented role players to surround the team's
   superstars. In recent weeks, rookie reliever Joba Chamberlain and
   newly acquired utility man Wilson Betemit have stepped up and
   delivered in clutch situations, much to the frustration of nearly
   everyone.

   "You got fucking Abreu all of a sudden going 3 for 4 every night,"
   Boston citizen Mark Baker said of the Yankees' recent surge. "Fucking
   Giambi's back. A-Rod's hitting 500 fucking home runs a night. Posada,
   that bastard. You got Matsui, who's a Red Sox killer. Then there's
   Shelley Duncan, who no one even heard of till three weeks ago. Guy
   never hit a home run in his life, he puts on pinstripes and suddenly
   he's Babe fucking Ruth."

   "And this Melky Cabrera guy," Baker added. "Where did this fucking guy
   come from? Him and Cano. They got guys coming out of the fucking
   woodwork."

   "Fucking Yankee fans must be loving this," said New York resident and
   avid Mets fan Dave Julian, muting the Yankee broadcast to temporarily
   silence the grating sound of Yankee cheers. "The smug fucks. And those
   Yankee announcers. Why don't they root a little harder? They make me
   sick. Michael Kay. Bet Steinbrenner's laughing it up. Bought himself
   another fucking championship."

   Although the Yankees' schedule becomes tougher in the coming month,
   with multiple series against the Tigers, Angels, Red Sox, and
   Mariners, most baseball fans have resigned themselves to the fact that
   the season is "pretty much fucking over."

   "What the fuck can you do?" said Detroit citizen Terry Grey. "Every
   call. The Yankees get every break, the bounces all go their way. It's
   luck. They're lucky. They're so fucking lucky."

   "Stupid," Grey added. "It's all stupid. Why play the whole fucking
   season if this is what's always going to happen?"

   Despite the mixture of anger, resentment, and disbelief that has
   surfaced across the country during the Yankees' recent hot streak,
   most fans have been able to take some solace in the fact that the
   Yankees will be eliminated by the Angels in the first round of the
   playoffs.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Gen. Tommy Franks, commander of American forces in the
   wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, announced plans Monday to step down as
   U.S. Central Command chief to focus on solo bombing projects.

   [4]Enlarge Image Gen Tommy Franks Quits Army 

   Gen. Franks tells reporters, "It's time for me to see what I can
   destroy on my own."

   "The years I've spent with the Army have been amazing, and we did some
   fantastic bombing," said Franks at a Pentagon press conference. "But
   at this point, I feel like I've taken it as far as I can. It's time
   for me to move on and see what I can destroy on my own."

   Franks said he is eager to seek out new challenges.

   "Obviously, the U.S. Army is a first-rate organization," Franks said.
   "I mean, when we were on, no one could touch us. The '91 Gulf tour,
   the '95 Bosnia campaign... we kicked some serious ass. But it's
   precisely because I love it so much that I want to leave before it
   starts to get stale."

   Franks said he also relishes the notion of having more creative
   freedom.

   "When you're in an army, you pretty much have to bomb the countries
   they tell you to bomb," Franks said. "Which is fine for a while. But
   eventually, you get tired of bombing the same old places again and
   again. The last thing I want is to be 70 years old, still bombing
   Iraq. It's important to keep things fresh."

   Asked to comment on rumors that he plans to launch a tour of the Far
   East, Franks said he will announce his first solo tour of duty later
   this month. He did mention, however, that he has "always wanted to
   bomb China," but that his work with the U.S. Army afforded him little
   time to do so.

   Elaborating on his dissatisfaction with the Army, Franks said that the
   vast scale of U.S. military operations, while exciting at first,
   eventually became a turn-off.

   "It just got to be so big," Franks said. "You had these massive
   campaigns, with soldiers and generals and tech crews and medical
   staffs and reporters and maintenance engineers and all these other
   people. It was such an elaborate production. I guess I just felt like,
   somewhere along the way, we got away from what it was all about. We
   forgot the thing we all got into it for in the first place: the
   killing."

   Franks said he is eager to strip down the warmaking experience to its
   purest essence.

   [5]Enlarge Image Gen Tommy Franks Quits Army jump 

   Franks rocks Baghdad during the recent Operation Iraqi Freedom tour.

   "I'd really like to get back to my roots," Franks said. "It's exciting
   to put on a big show with M1 Abrams tanks, Bradley fighting vehicles,
   and AH-64 Apache attack helicopters, but I got my first combat
   experience as an artillery officer in Vietnam. Part of me really
   misses being out there in the swamps, just one man and a howitzer."

   "My years with the military have been the best of my life," Franks
   continued. "But when you're at the head of a group, you're always
   considering the entire unit's best interests. Even though you're the
   leader, it can be very stifling. If you get the urge to bomb India or
   Brazil, you can't just go off and do it."

   While he was under contract with the U.S. government, Franks
   occasionally expressed displeasure over having to seek approval from
   the president and Congress for nearly every action he performed.

   "If I want to send a division of jet fighters to Iran, you'd think,
   after all the years I've been doing this, that I could simply make
   that decision," Franks told reporters during a CentCom press briefing
   in February. "But it's not like that."

   In spite of Franks' claim that the decision to leave the army was his,
   some military insiders suspect otherwise.

   "Franks says he quit, but I think that's bullshit," said CNN Pentagon
   correspondent James Washburn. "He got kicked out. Why else would he be
   leaving the best military in the entire world right after their
   triumphant Middle East tour?"

   Franks' relationships with certain key Bush Administration figures
   were "less than perfect," Washburn said.

   "You always got the feeling that [Donald] Rumsfeld and Franks never
   really got along when the cameras were off," Washburn said. "Franks
   always felt like he was in the shadow of Norman Schwarzkopf, the far
   more charismatic general who commanded U.S. forces in the 1991 Gulf
   War."

   Like Franks, Schwarzkopf left the army with plans to pursue a solo
   career, though a lackluster raid on a Japanese fishing village and a
   poorly received attack on the Dominican Republic led to the
   cancellation of a number of solo bombing dates in the Balkans.

   "Schwarzkopf influenced me greatly," Franks said. "I would be honored
   to work with him in the future, should he care to collaborate with me
   outside of the confines of the U.S. Army."

   Though Franks said he is "excited and energized" by his future
   prospects as a solo artist, disappointed fans say the U.S. Army will
   not be the same without him.

   "He wasn't flashy, but he was the backbone of that group," said Marty
   Nevins of Valdosta, GA. "No one will ever forget that moment when he
   decided to launch a massive ground assault on Baghdad rather than
   engage in a prolonged air campaign. That's just good old-fashioned,
   meat-and-potatoes invading. None of this fancy shock-and-awe shit.
   They can bring in somebody else, but I don't think that group's gonna
   be the same with a new frontman."


   WASHINGTON, DC--In a nationally televised address reminiscent of
   President Kennedy's historic 1961 speech pledging to put a man on the
   moon, President Bush responded to the global warming crisis Monday by
   calling for the construction of a giant national air conditioner by
   the year 2015.
   [4]Enlarge Image National Air Conditioner 

   Concept art shows how the 800-mile-wide device would function on a
   "high cool" setting.

   "Climate change is real and it demands a real solution," Bush said.
   "Therefore, I am committed to dedicating all of the technology, all of
   the brainpower, and all of the resources we need in order to keep
   America cool and comfortable well into the 21st century."

   The National Air Conditioner Initiative is expected to be the largest
   public works project in the nation's history. Because technology
   capable of creating an air conditioner that can fulfill the cooling
   needs of a continental land mass does not presently exist, the
   president estimated that research and development alone will require
   at least $100 trillion in both federal and private sector funds.

   "The challenge of building an air conditioner for all Americans will
   be the greatest we have ever faced," Bush said. "But we must face it.
   We must act now to ensure that our children and our children's
   children can live in a world where they don't get sweaty and have to
   change their shirts all the time."
     Bush

   'We have a responsibility to future generations.'

   President Bush

   While Bush's speech left many questions unanswered, such as whether
   the one-touch cooling settings would be under federal or state
   jurisdiction, reaction from congressional Democrats and Republicans
   has been largely favorable.

   "I applaud the administration for finally taking this issue
   seriously," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said. "Such a giant apparatus
   means that Americans from all walks of life, not just the wealthy and
   privileged, will be able to get relief from the rise in the Earth's
   surface temperature. And it will create a great many jobs. Just
   removing and rinsing out the huge filter will require tens of
   thousands of seasonal laborers."

   Petrochemical industry leaders voiced early support of the plan, which
   would stimulate additional exploration and production of oil and gas
   to satisfy the machine's staggering energy needs.

   Some fiscal conservatives, however, decry the cost of the project and
   the gargantuan electric bills that would result, saying that a series
   of mile-high oscillating fans stationed in the Pacific Northwest and
   blowing in the direction of the jet stream would accomplish
   essentially the same thing and save billions. Conservative commentator
   Pat Buchanan expressed his concern that illegal aliens would benefit
   unfairly from the air conditioner, since many of them work outside,
   and questioned President Bush's ability to "seal the nation's borders
   in order to keep the cool air in."

   Environmental groups like the Sierra Club have taken a tough stance on
   the president's plan, demanding it contain legally binding language
   that ensures the air conditioner will be switched to a special
   energy-conserving "sleep" setting when the country cools off at night.
   The White House has shown interest in an "economy mode" option that
   could be used in the event of a budgetary crisis, but it is still
   unknown whether such a massive unit would qualify for an Energy Star
   certification, let alone accommodate built-in money-saving features.

   The strongest opposition to the plan has come from Canada. Because the
   proposed National Air Conditioner would cover 90 percent of the state
   of North Dakota and face south, the U.S.'s northern neighbor would be
   directly in the path of superheated air expelled from the machine's
   back vents. Though Prime Minister Stephen Harper said this would
   create drought conditions and devastate their farmlands, most believe
   Canada lacks the clout to halt Bush's air-conditioning agenda.

   American air conditioner manufacturers, with whom President Bush
   reportedly consulted extensively prior to announcing the initiative,
   will soon be awarded tens of trillions of dollars to design and build
   the components necessary for the giant unit. Industry leader Lennox is
   expected to receive at least $30 trillion, including a massive
   installation fee, while  the Carrier Corporation, Trane, and Amana are
   all jockeying for the next largest contracts.

   "Global warming threatens us all, whether we're mowing our lawns,
   rafting down a river in a national park, or driving to the end of the
   driveway to get our mail," Bush said. "The task that lies ahead is
   undeniably hard. But if we do not succeed, we will be profoundly
   inconvenienced. And I promise you: America will not let that happen."

   Speaking at a Democratic National Committee fundraiser Monday night,
   Al Gore said that now that Bush has taken up the cause of global
   warming, the former vice president and environmental activist will
   redirect his energies toward developing a personal spacecraft capable
   of transporting a family of four to a distant planet.


   TEMPE, AZ--Calling his pet "a  completely different gerbil" than the
   one he brought home from the store, Doug Kerlin, 34, told reporters
   Tuesday that he fears the small mammal is growing increasingly
   distant.
   [4]Enlarge Image Doug Kerlin 

   Kerlin, 34, and Blinkers, 0.5, sometimes go days without making eye
   contact.

   "When I first got Blinkers, it was like we had this amazing
   connection," said Kerlin, who aside from his gerbil lives by himself
   in a one-bedroom apartment. "But lately it's almost as if he cares
   more about burrowing in his wood chips than he does about me."

   Despite recent attempts by Kerlin to bridge the ever-growing void
   between himself and the withdrawn rodent--primarily by placing several
   new wooden ramps and ladders inside Blinkers' 15-gallon aquarium--as
   of press time the gerbil had refused to emerge from his nesting box.

   "I don't know what to do," said Kerlin, who claimed the gerbil barely
   acknowledges his presence when he comes home from work. "Sometimes
   it's like he doesn't even recognize me."

   According to Kerlin, the eight-inch, 2.3-ounce Mongolian gerbil's
   aloof behavior started when the junior accountant noticed that
   Blinkers would avoid looking at him every time he stared into the
   rodent's cage. The emotional detachment only became more apparent,
   Kerlin said, when Blinkers started making rhythmic thumping sounds
   with his hind legs every time Kerlin would reach into the glass
   enclosure to hold the gerbil.

   "I was concerned," said Kerlin, who purchased the pet on a whim when
   he was walking through a shopping mall last Saturday night. "But the
   veterinarian told me that there was nothing medically wrong with
   Blinkers. That's when I knew it was me."

   Though Kerlin has tried to personally engage his despondent gerbil by
   giving him more dust baths and leaving a cleaned-out coconut shell on
   the aquarium floor, Blinkers became even more cold and unfeeling with
   every conciliatory gesture, opting to ignore his owner for hours at a
   time by roaming around his multicolored climbing tunnel.

   "Sometimes I come downstairs in the middle of the night to get a
   snack, and I hear him running on the exercise wheel and rustling
   around in his cage," Kerlin said. "But as soon as I turn on the light,
   he suddenly stops and waits for me to leave the kitchen."

   Kerlin said the last real emotional response he received from the
   gerbil was several nights ago when he left a toilet paper tube in the
   aquarium for Blinkers to play with.

   "The next morning it was completely destroyed," Kerlin said.

   Searching for some kind of reason to justify his gerbil's callous
   behavior, Kerlin admitted that he probably doesn't clean out the
   rodent's dwelling as often as he could. He still contends, however,
   that he has never done anything physically harmful to Blinkers that
   would warrant such a coldhearted response from the rodent.

   "I never once picked him up by his tail, and always made sure his
   sipper bottle was full of fresh water," Kerlin said. "Also, I used to
   give him lettuce or seeds as an occasional treat. How dare he act like
   I'm a complete stranger?"

   "I didn't buy a gerbil to be treated like this," he said.

   Following a last-ditch attempt to win over his pet's appreciation by
   introducing a companion gerbil, an idea that reportedly backfired
   completely, Kerlin flatly stated that Blinkers has distanced himself
   to a point where the once-loyal pet is mentally and emotionally
   "gone," and a "mere shell of the gerbil he once was."

   Still, Kerlin said he would always remember the good times.

   "I remember when I used to come home and watch Blinkers chew through
   old cardboard, squeaky toys, file folders, wood chips, plastic tubing,
   Kleenex boxes, Styrofoam cups--anything he could get into his mouth,
   really," Kerlin said. "He just loved to chew. He still does, but it's
   just different now, you know?"

   Added Kerlin: "I probably should have gotten a hamster instead."

   Giants

   NEW YORK--As they come closer to their Super Bowl clash with the
   formidable Patriots--the team they nearly defeated in late
   December--the Giants are confident that they can come close to beating
   the undefeated AFC champions on football's biggest stage.

   "This team has already tasted victory against the Patriots," head
   coach Tom Coughlin said Monday. "By which I mean we were so close to
   victory that we could taste it. True, we did not actually experience
   that victory, but we came as close to beating them as anyone else has
   this season. That's the kind of team we believe we are, and I think
   the Super Bowl will prove that."

   Couglin and his assistant coaches have been painstakingly breaking
   down game films from their Week 17 meeting with New England, analyzing
   every vital, near-victorious second for anything that might help them
   come that tantalizingly close to winning for the second time in as
   many months. They acknowledge that the Patriots are very good indeed,
   but the Giants believe they can draw on the experience of that
   near-victory, the confidence they discovered in barely losing to
   undefeated New England, and the lessons learned in forcing Bill
   Belichick's juggernaut to come from 12 points behind and beat them in
   the final minutes.

   "This team really believes they can come close to winning the Super
   Bowl--very, very close," Giants quarterback Eli Manning said Tuesday
   after spending the morning watching film of his Dec. 29 home loss,
   film that laid bare the crucial interception he threw to Pats corner
   Ellis Hobbs. "We can come so close to beating them, so very,
   heartbreakingly close, that every player here will take it to their
   graves."

   "This will be one to tell my kids about, that's for sure," Michael
   Strahan said. "If we can pull it off and almost beat these guys,
   they'll be showing those highlights until the end of time. When I die
   and come before those Pearly Gates, St. Peter himself will look down
   at me and say 'So, Michael, what was it like to be an eyelash away
   from winning that Super Bowl against those Patriots?' And Heaven
   itself will hold its breath while I tell them how we almost did it."

   Meanwhile, in Foxborough, the Patriots are being careful not to give
   the Giants any bulletin-board material.

   "Yeah, they good, they good," wideout Randy Moss said when told of the
   Giants attitude. "They got a good team. I guess we can't get too upset
   if they think they can nearly pull it off. Plus, hey, you got to
   admit, it ain't bragging if it's true. And they did nearly almost come
   close to practically beating us, come to think of it."

   "Didn't, though," Moss added. "18 and oh, baby!"

   Still, the Giants refuse to be completely intimidated.

   "We stood up to them once, hit 'em in the mouth, and made them beat
   us," Coughlin said, noting that in the previous meeting, the Giants
   defense put the Patriots in the challenging position of having to
   score three times over the last 20 minutes of the game, which the
   Patriots naturally did with time to spare and without apparent effort.
   "And mark my words, that's what we're going to do in the Super
   Bowl--meet their strengths with ours, play as hard and as fast as we
   can, and force them to eventually beat us."

   "Oh, crap," Coughlin added. "Crap. We're going to lose the Super
   Bowl."

   Craig Kilborn

   BRISTOL, CT--Craig Kilborn, the former host of The Late Late Show With
   Craig Kilborn, actor from the film The Benchwarmers, and SportsCenter
   anchor from 1993 to 1997, was spotted at 5:30 a.m. this morning broke,
   homeless, and passed out in front of ESPN's SportsCenter studios.

   According to ESPN sources, Kilborn appeared even thinner and more
   frail than usual, reeked of cigarette smoke and gin, and his
   clothes--a moth-eaten dark suit that may have been the same one he
   wore in his last-ever SportsCenter appearance--were in tatters.
   Kilborn was reportedly only wearing one shoe at the time of his
   discovery.

   Onlookers stated that, upon being woken up from his drunken stupor,
   the still-inebriated Kilborn asked to be shown to his "regular
   dressing room." The gangly, 6'5" former anchor then eluded security
   for long enough to stumble down the studio halls and blurt out random
   catchphrases from his broadcasting days at SportsCenter, including but
   not limited to "Gettin' giddy in the zone," "If it feels good, do it,"
   and "The low angle spank!"

   "Craiggers is back, people," said Kilborn, whose signature gelled
   blond hair was described in a later police report as dank and
   lice-ridden. "Nothing to be afraid of, folks. This is just Kilby
   simply being Kilby. Release. Rotation. Splash."

   Kilborn then regurgitated in a nearby garbage can.

   "Da da da--Da da da," an increasingly aggressive Kilborn audibly
   hummed in a mocking tone, mimicking  the final six notes of
   SportsCenter's theme song while still hovering over the trash
   receptacle. "I'm Craig Kilborn. He's Dan Patrick. Welcome to the
   feel-good edition of SportsCenter. Unless you're me, and you feel like
   complete shit because your whole life is nothing but a goddamn joke."

   "Jumanji!" he added, scaring a nearby production assistant.

   Kilborn, who had moved to Los Angeles before apparently going
   bankrupt, losing his home, and becoming a vagrant, would not comment
   as to how he ended up in Bristol, CT, but police sources said they
   later found a Mercedes registered to Kilborn's older sister broken
   down on the side of nearby I-95. The vehicle had clearly been lived in
   for weeks, possibly even months.

   "Craig looked, sounded, and smelled awful," said former colleague
   Kenny Mayne, who spent half an hour attempting to talk Kilborn out of
   his makeup chair. "But then again, as a broke, homeless man, that's
   his job."

   Though Kilborn did not harm anyone and was treated with respect by
   current employees during his unannounced visit to his former employer,
   his mood shifted noticeably when he saw a framed picture of former
   ESPN anchor Keith Olbermann.

   "Keith!" Kilborn said as he opened doors to the sound, graphics, and
   editing bays. "Come out, you son-of-a-bitch. I know you're in here
   somewhere. I just want to talk to you for a second. I got your daily
   dose of Did You Know right here!"

   Olbermann was at MSNBC studios in Secaucus, NJ at the time.

   After ransacking sportscaster Stuart Scott's dressing room, urinating
   on his own shoes, and emerging with a tie knotted around his bare,
   sweaty neck, Kilborn proceeded to interrupt the 6 a.m. broadcast of
   SportsCenter by forcibly removing anchor Scott Van Pelt, whom Kilborn
   referred to as a "wannabe," from his chair.

   Kilborn then repeatedly attempted to kiss former colleague Linda Cohn.

   "Miss me, baby?" Kilborn said while unsuccessfully trying to suppress
   a fit of belching. "I gotta say, I'm--I'm--I'm proud of ya, Linda.
   Longevity, people. This woman just drips longevity. Drips. Linda Cohn,
   everyone!"

   Added Kilborn: "Stick around, folks. I've got five questions with
   Linda coming up right after the break. Maybe this time she'll say
   'yes.'"

   Kilborn then burst into tears, collapsed, and was eventually escorted
   out of ESPN headquarters. According to employees, Kilborn mumbled
   underneath his breath that he was starving and would be "dropping by"
   The Daily Show studios, hopefully before they took down the staff's
   free lunch buffet.

   "They still do that there, right?" Kilborn asked.


   STOCKHOLM--2007 was an extraordinary year for former vice president Al
   Gore, who received the highest honors in both film and humanitarianism
   for his tireless efforts in creating a visually pleasing, hour-long
   slide-show presentation using the popular computer program Keynote.
   [4]Enlarge Image Gore Wins 

   Gore displays his vast knowledge of the program's "custom shape" tool.

   The slide show, which features approximately 80 full-color pictures of
   landforms and people, as well as a vast array of detailed line and bar
   graphs, proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that a successful visual
   presentation must utilize both an application's audio and graphic
   capabilities. Furthermore, Gore effectively silenced many of his
   critics by incorporating short videos.

   "The Nobel Committee was deeply moved by Mr. Gore's passion for making
   a clear, concise, easy-to-watch slide show," Professor Geir Lundestad,
   director of the Nobel Institute, told reporters in late October. "[The
   slide show] truly displayed how well-placed transitions--be they
   dissolves, wipes, or splits--can really tie a presentation together."

   Added Lundestad: "Also, the slides with multi-image animation were
   cool."

   In February, Gore's montage of satellite images and title slides was
   awarded an Oscar by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences
   and was hailed for presenting a "truly global message" with a clear
   beginning, middle, and end.

   "I was stunned," said Phoenix resident Amy Swinton, 23, who saw the
   slide show twice in theaters. "It turns out that you don't always need
   flashy fonts or background colors to make a great multimedia
   presentation. Simple white text on an all black background can be very
   effective."

   Swinton later called the slide show extremely informative, saying that
   over the course of two hours she was completely convinced of the
   reality of Keynote's "bounce" slide-transition option.

   "I think these awards will help give even more weight to Mr. Gore's
   ultimate message," New York Times columnist Paul Krugman wrote. "In
   our changing world, it is absolutely essential that all of us do our
   part to stay informed about the various eye-catching possibilities of
   today's slide-show software."


   WASHINGTON, DC-With his lead in presidential polls narrowing to just
   four points over Republican challenger George W. Bush, an already
   anxious Al Gore wondered aloud Monday whether the latest Doonesbury is
   about him.

   [4]Enlarge Image Gore Wondering 

   A 1999 file photo of Gore reading The Washington Post Sunday comics
   page.

   The cartoon in question, the Sept. 25 installment of Garry Trudeau's
   popular, long-running satirical comic strip, depicts a silhouetted
   political figure that strongly resembles the vice-president.

   "Do you think this is supposed to be me?" Gore asked deputy campaign
   manager Mark Fabiani shortly after finishing breakfast and, as is his
   custom, turning to the Washington Post comics page before beginning
   his day. "I think it is."

   An anonymous source within the Gore camp said the candidate later
   added, "Because it's not a very flattering portrayal, if it is. I
   mean, is that what the American people think of me? They don't think
   I'm some kind of big dork, do they?"

   The controversial strip, which ran in hundreds of newspapers across
   the U.S., depicts an unnamed political figure engaged in a top-secret
   strategy session with a group of shadowy advisors. At first glance,
   the character, which Trudeau will neither confirm nor deny represents
   Gore, appears to be seeking out advice of a substantive, political
   nature. Upon reading the word balloon above the character's head,
   however, it becomes apparent that he is actually consulting his
   advisors on matters of fashion, showing himself to be a shallow, vain
   individual more concerned with his appearance than with issues that
   affect the American people.

   "Look, I can take a joke as well as the next guy," Gore told Fabiani.
   "But if this is supposed to be me, well, I just don't think that's
   very nice. What's worse, millions of people read this thing every day.
   Can you imagine how that makes me feel? It's not exactly a
   confidence-builder, to say the least."

   Continued Gore, "I mean, sure, I may have hired a fashion consultant
   early in the campaign and tinkered with my outfits and color schemes a
   bit, emphasizing earth tones to soften my image. But do I really
   deserve to be mocked in front of the whole country like this?"

   According to the anonymous source, approximately 15 minutes later,
   Gore turned to top economic adviser Laura Tyson and said, "I'd hate to
   think that all this time, while I've been trying to promote education,
   deficit reduction, and progressive environmental policies, the
   electorate was laughing at me."

   Gore reportedly seemed preoccupied throughout the day, becoming easily
   distracted during campaign strategy sessions and bringing up the
   subject of the cartoon frequently.

   "He kept asking everyone about it," the source said. "It was obvious
   that Trudeau really got under his skin with this one. I felt sorry for
   him, really."

   Despite repeated assurances from top advisors that he shouldn't fret
   about the strip and that no one reads Doonesbury anymore, Gore
   continued to obsess.

   [5]Enlarge Image Gore Wondering jump 

   The Doonesbury in question.

   "Man, I really felt sorry for him," said Washington Post reporter
   David Maraniss, who has been following Gore on the campaign trail
   since January. "He looked like a sad, pathetic little kid. Poor
   guy-those cutting-edge, Pulitzer Prize-winning political cartoonists
   can be so cruel sometimes, with their barbed pens and rapier wit."

   "This thing has been a real blow to Gore's morale," Maraniss
   continued. "He was feeling a bit more confident after that Newsweek
   poll showed him up by 10, but now he just stays in his office
   obsessively re-reading the strip. He'd never openly admit it, but the
   feeling among staffers is that Al's self-esteem may have taken a
   significant hit from this lampooning."

   Perhaps most devastating, according to Brill's Content editor-in-chief
   David Kuhn, is the fact that the cartoon comes at a time when Gore is
   "really trying very hard" to impress people.

   "If this cartoon is indeed about Gore, as he fears," Kuhn said, "it
   would almost appear that Trudeau deliberately chose to 'needle' Gore,
   so to speak, on this particularly sensitive subject. Like he was
   specifically picking out an area in which Gore was vulnerable to
   criticism in order to make fun of him or even provoke derisive
   laughter against him. That's kind of mean, if you think about it."

   Gore supporters are hoping that the ambiguity of the strip's subject
   will give the vice-president the "out" he needs to stop worrying and
   once again focus on the presidential race.

   "Maybe it isn't about me," Gore said. "There are lots of other
   politicians out there, you know. Yeah, it's probably about one of
   them. Now that I look at it again, the guy does bear a pretty strong
   resemblance to [Arizona Sen. John] McCain."

   But despite such signs that Gore may be ready to put the cartoon
   behind him, observers fear that the worst is yet to come. According to
   Trudeau spokespersons at Universal Press Syndicate, in next Sunday's
   Doonesbury the mystery politician will be depicted as a floating block
   of wood.


   BROOKLYN, NY--Nearly 50 percent of 26-year-old paralegal Philip
   Jenkins' encoded long-term memories involve button combinations,
   game-playing experiences, and spatial-cognitive maps of various levels
   and worlds from Nintendo's line of video-game consoles, a team of
   neuroscientists reported Tuesday.

   The memory-evaluation study, headed by Dr. Franklin McCarroll of New
   York University's School of Psychology, revealed that approximately 47
   percent of Jenkins' hippocampus is dedicated to storing notable
   video-game victories and frustrating last-minute defeats, while 32
   percent of his amygdala contains embedded neurological scripts
   pertaining to game strategies, character back stories, theme songs,
   and cheat codes. In addition, his entire dorsolateral prefrontal
   cortex is devoted to remembering the time he did a helicopter dunk
   from half-court with Shawn Kemp at the buzzer to beat the Charlotte
   Hornets 82-81 in NBA Jam: Tournament Edition.
   [4]Enlarge Image Nintendo 

   Jenkins makes room for new Wii tennis-based memories by eradicating
   moments from his high school graduation and a 1994 trip to a local
   aquarium.

   Although these percentages are only slightly above the average for
   males in Jenkins' age bracket, McCarroll said that the memories most
   closely associated with the interactive gaming systems can be accessed
   far more quickly than any of his memories involving school, work, or
   family.

   "It takes Mr. Jenkins 4.33 milliseconds to retrieve the memory of
   holding his newborn sister for the first time, but just 1.09
   milliseconds to retrieve the memory of knocking Pikachu off the Sector
   Z platform with Donkey Kong's 'ground pound' maneuver in Super Smash
   Bros.," McCarroll said. "In fact, the only school-related memory he is
   able to review as vividly as the underwater-bomb-defusing level of
   Nintendo Entertainment System's Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is his
   first day of college, which was spent playing multiplayer GoldenEye
   007 with his roommates."

   According to an fMRI of Jenkins' brain regions during the process of
   memory recall, his parietal lobe registers the same amount of activity
   when he hears the word "mother" as it does when he hears the words
   "Banjo Kazooie."

   "Due to sheer repetition in his peak synaptic years for processing new
   information, every neural strand in Philip's basal ganglia is embedded
   with the Konami Code: up, up, down, down, left, right, left, right, B,
   A, select, start," McCarroll said.

   Nintendo-based memories are also among Jenkins' most frequently
   retrieved, researcher Dr. Francis Holbrook said. A series of recent
   tests suggest that when Jenkins accesses stored information in
   response to visual or mental cues, he is most likely to remember his
   family's trip to Disney World, followed by the time he beat the
   dreaded Stage 57 on Bubble Bobble without losing a life, the first
   time he rode a bike, the exact route he made Bo Jackson run to defeat
   his friend Jason Whitner at Tecmo Bowl, hiding underneath his covers
   while his parents fought noisily in the adjoining room, and the
   locations of the three warp whistles in Super Mario Bros. 3.

   "On Friday, we showed Mr. Jenkins a series of images meant to elicit
   memories of times of great pain and confusion in his life," Holbrook
   said. "The first two events that came to the fore of his psyche were
   an incident in late 2000 when the screen froze just as he was about to
   set a new 'best lap' record on Wave Race 64, and his
   great-grandmother's funeral."

   Holbrook also suggested that as much as 17 percent of Jenkins'
   cerebellum capacity may be filled with motor-coordination skills of
   the various Nintendo system controllers, including the Power Glove,
   the Power Pad mat, and the special joystick issued by Capcom for the
   Super NES edition of Street Fighter II.

   Some researchers have theorized that the amount of space Jenkins'
   brain allocates for Nintendo-based memories has resulted in damage to
   or the complete loss of his non-Nintendo-based memories. They note
   that although Jenkins cannot remember his father's cell phone number
   (415-547-6823) off the top of his head, he can recite without
   hesitation the password that allows you to view the credits in Mike
   Tyson's Punch-Out!! (106-113-0120).

   In a parallel study, a team of Columbia University behavioral
   psychologists suggested that Nintendo-related feats and
   accomplishments also account for approximately 75 percent of Jenkins'
   self-esteem.

   "Unsurprisingly, Mr. Jenkins' self-perception draws from the most
   important moments in his life, and is framed largely by the time he
   hit a game-winning grand slam with Saul in NES's Little League
   Baseball to help the New York team win the tournament," Dr. Gary
   Nordstrom said. "It is not uncommon for men his age to measure
   themselves by their greatest athletic achievements, and this is
   without a doubt Mr. Jenkins'."

   The findings also revealed that about 60 percent of Jenkins' repressed
   memories may involve Nintendo. In a Rorschach inkblot test
   administered to him, Jenkins compared a series of amorphous shapes to
   a bird eating its young, his mother brandishing a broadsword, and the
   entire cast of characters from Castlevania II: Simon's Quest.


   KANSAS CITY, MO--Scientists at Hallmark Cards' Center for the Research
   and Development of Sentiments announced Monday that they had
   discovered three previously unknown emotions that can be experienced
   by human beings and captured on a folded piece of card stock.
   [4]Enlarge Image Hallmark Scientists 

   Exploring The Human Psyche

   Dr. Susan McMurrough has spent years analyzing the deep, unexamined
   feelings of thousands of test subjects in order to discover new,
   marketable emotions.

   "These new Hallmark-brand feelings will fill a void that has too long
   persisted in the consumable pleasantries market," said Hallmark
   president and CEO Don Hall, Jr., speaking to reporters in front of a
   watercolor backdrop of tulips beside a pond. "They will add a whole
   new level of complexity and nuance to the way we humans relate to one
   another, and will fill in any gaps left by our 'Thinking of You' and
   'Just Because' categories."

   The first emotion the project successfully isolated was "requiapathy,"
   the combination of relief and guilt that comes with the sudden
   realization that you no longer miss a dead loved one. That discovery
   quickly led to the uncovering of "seprudity," the feeling of
   appreciating a coworker's dedication without fully understanding his
   or her job function, and "trepatiousness," a synthesis of rage and
   jealousy, though more muted and often accompanied by a sensation of
   weighlessness.

   "[Trepatiousness] appears to be a very rare emotion, almost
   exclusively experienced while in a dream state," said principal
   investigator Dr. Susan McMurrough, a leader in the field of keepsake
   science best known for her work on the revolutionary "Blank Inside"
   line of cards. "The only way to activate it during waking hours, in
   fact, is with a combination of reds, oranges, and drowsy beagles in
   top hats."

   The three emotions represent the latest discovery in the center's
   ongoing Emotions Mapping Project, a $42.4 million effort to identify
   and codify all of the mental and physiological states generated within
   the human psyche that are not currently covered by Hallmark's
   extensive line of greeting cards and collectible ornaments.
   [5]Enlarge Image Hallmark Cards 

   A prototype of one of the new cards, which will be available at
   Hallmark stores in time for Father's Day.

   In 2002, McMurrough monitored the MRI activity of nearly 10,000 test
   subjects between the ages of 25 and 40 as they described all emotions
   they had experienced in the past six months and rated each for its
   intensity, duration, and whether it would be conveyable to others by
   mail. To identify targets of further study, McMurrough's team
   referenced that data against a matrix of all possible combinations of
   the neurotransmitters that catalyze human emotion.

   "Until now, millions of people worldwide were forced to express their
   sincere and heartfelt requiapathy, seprudity, and trepatiousness with
   clumsy words and gestures," Hall said. "Our colorful and succinct
   messages will spare them countless hours of inconvenience and
   potential misunderstandings."

   After a second group of Hallmark scientists successfully replicated
   the initial study's results, the sentiments were immediately submitted
   to the U.S. Patent Office and rushed to Hallmark headquarters, where
   writers, illustrators, and graphic designers interpreted the new
   emotions in warm, concise verse; inoffensive, ingratiating humor; and
   reassuring pastel watercolors.

   "This research is not only groundbreaking--it's inspirational," said
   Mallory Jefson, a writer for Hallmark's Best Wishes department, who
   added that the emotions have led them to creative heights not reached
   since Secretaries Day became Administrative Professionals Day in 2000.
   In a single day of brainstorming, Jefson and her colleagues developed
   15 seprudity-based card concepts that incorporated cats in sunglasses,
   and 22 new coffee mugs featuring the tart-tongued, post-menopausal
   character Maxine expressing requiapathy.

   The Hallmark laboratories have been at the forefront of the greeting
   card sciences since the '40s. Their work has led to the creation of
   eight federally recognized holidays, the specification of a time frame
   in which someone ought to get well, and over a dozen flower and
   cursive-font combinations that, sales figures show, have effectively
   conveyed the complex emotional and psychological states of an
   estimated 185 million Americans.


   COLUMBUS, OH--The Columbus Health Department closed the Mexican fast
   food restaurant Burrito Max on Monday after it failed a routine
   inspection, completely neglecting to take into account  the fact that
   the popular, conveniently located establishment was a perfectly good
   burrito place that served kick-ass burritos at a totally cheap price.
   [4]Enlarge Image Health Department 

   Hungry for a burrito? Too damn bad, health officials say.

   "The food there was just fine," said bike messenger Seth Sherwood, 25,
   adding that he "almost never got sick" after eating at Burrito Max.
   "This is bullshit. I bet those health guys have never even tried one
   of their Grande Texas Chili Extremes."

   According to a report filed by city food-safety inspector Dan
   Griffith, Burrito Max, a cheap, no-frills eatery that never aspired to
   be anything it wasn't, had a handful of very small, practically
   insignificant health-code violations, such as vermin on the premises,
   a persistent foul odor, traces of E. coli, and unsanitary food-contact
   surfaces and equipment--like what restaurant in this city doesn't.

   The report, however, did not mention the restaurant's free drink
   refills and the signature chili-cheese fries, which, according to
   restaurant regulars, were "awesome."

   "If those guys got a bad burrito, they should have just asked for
   another one instead of writing the place up like a bunch of little
   bitches," said Ohio State University sophomore Greg Hall, 19, who,
   like a lot of customers, didn't absolutely love the food, but found it
   more than serviceable, especially during lunch, after bar time, or
   when he was craving a burrito. "If they really want to help me out,
   here's an idea: They could open up another burrito place, keep it open
   until 4 a.m., and call it Burrito Max."

   Though the report cited the employees' habit of not wearing hairnets
   or shirts and showing up to work "in a generally unhygienic state," it
   overlooked the fact that the heavily pierced and tattooed staff added
   to the authentic, laid-back atmosphere of Burrito Max. Most
   importantly, the place served solid, hearty,  burritos fast and hot,
   something most burrito joints in the area do not. In addition, the
   line to order was never too long.

   "I didn't go to Burrito Max because it was clean," copy shop assistant
   Rachael Grimaldi, 26, said. "I went because my friends worked there,
   the tofu burrito was cheap, and they had a bike rack outside the front
   entrance."

   Had health department officials bothered to interview Burrito Max's
   patrons, they would have learned these things, rather than just
   dwelling on the dirty floors--which people don't eat off of, last time
   anyone checked--and the consistently out-of-order bathroom with the
   hilarious "Fuck You" carved into the "Employees Must Wash Hands" sign.

   "I'm sure the risk of food-borne illnesses wasn't as big a deal as
   they made it out to be," said 24-year-old legal assistant Deirdre
   Sarnoff upon hearing that the restaurant's poultry and beef were
   stored at improper temperatures. "It's not like I ever bit into a
   cockroach or anything. Where am I supposed to eat now, some overpriced
   corporate burrito chain like Chipotle?"

   "Christ," Sarnoff added. "It seems like every time I find a cheap
   place that's open past midnight the stupid city comes along and shuts
   it down."

   Burrito Max is not the only local eatery to be unfairly shuttered by
   the Health Department in recent months. In March, Cecilia's Pizza was
   shut down for rat feces and a lack of properly covered waste
   receptacles, despite its sweet $3.99 deal that included two slices of
   cheese pizza and a medium drink. Two weeks ago, the Indian Buffet,
   located in the basement of an apartment building on 595 Commonwealth
   Ave., was closed for unsanitary conditions, though, according to
   patrons, the food quality was "still pretty decent" even after the big
   grease fire they had there last August.


   WASHINGTON, DC--A confused President Bush broke free from the
   restraint of Secret Service agents this morning and ran in pursuit of
   departing deputy chief of staff Karl Rove's car for several blocks
   down Pennsylvania Avenue before being outdistanced by the vehicle.
   [4]Enlarge Image Heratbroken Bush 

   Bush sits in disbelief as his longtime buddy disappears forever and
   ever and ever.

   "Why can't I go with him?" Bush tearfully asked advisers as the
   longtime Republican strategist's sedan disappeared over the horizon.
   "When is he coming back?"

   White House staff were deeply moved by the scene, saying that despite
   their best efforts, no one was able to explain to the president that
   he would no longer be able to remain at his chief adviser's side.
   Onlookers were clearly choked up as a tearful Rove, trying to close
   the car door behind him, told Bush in a stern, commanding tone to back
   away.

   "Go on...you hear me? Get out of here, I say!" Rove said. "I don't
   love you anymore, understand? Now get! Get!"

   Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice witnessed the emotionally charged
   moment. "We knew that deep down [Rove] still cared, that he was only
   pretending to be mad at the president," she said. "But he had no
   choice. Leaving was the only way to avoid the ongoing Congressional
   inquiries."

   Rove reportedly tried to prepare Bush for this inevitability in late
   July by taking him on a special fishing trip so they could spend some
   quality time together and he could also give Bush a brief rundown on
   how the presidency works. Rove said he "didn't have the heart" to
   break the news to the president, who fell asleep in their rowboat with
   the fishing pole still in his hands. On his last day, nearly two weeks
   later, Rove spent the whole morning with Bush before the tear-jerking
   exit, ruffling his hair, telling him to "be brave" and "listen to
   Cheney," and explaining that he was going to have to be "the man of
   the White House now."
   [5]Enlarge Image Bush Heartbroken Jump 

   Rove was finally able to leave the White House, despite Bush's
   heartrending stalling tactics.

   Though Rove's resignation had been imminent for weeks, Bush appeared
   oblivious to the situation, which is evident in photos of him smiling
   as if nothing were wrong until the moment he discovered several
   suitcases near one of the West Wing's back-door exits. According to
   high-level administration sources, Bush asked Rove, "Where are we
   going?"

   While sneaking the departing official out to a waiting town car,
   Secret Service agents were briefly able to deceive Bush by telling him
   Rove was just running down to the cellar to get him some ice cream.
   But when Bush heard the car's engine start in the driveway, he burst
   outside to stop Rove.

   "I'll never forget the sight of the president, watching Rove's face in
   the back window becoming smaller and smaller as the car pulled away
   forever," Rice said.

   The president continued to ask about his former adviser throughout the
   day, often clutching Rove's day planner, dialing his extension, and
   blinking uncomprehendingly when told that Rove was never coming back.

   White House press secretary Tony Snow was finally called in to attempt
   to convey the reality of the situation to the president, but he was
   unable to do so.

   "He kept looking up at me with those wide, innocent eyes, and I didn't
   know what to say," Snow told reporters. "Maybe someday when he's
   older, he'll understand how the public lost trust in his big buddy
   after a series of crucial political missteps, and how firing those
   attorneys and the..."

   At this point in the briefing Snow fell silent, overcome with emotion,
   and moving many in the press room to tears.

   White House officials say they would like to give President Bush more
   time to process the loss before pressuring him to appoint a new deputy
   chief of staff, since he does not yet appear ready to confront the
   concept of a "new Rove."

   Bush sits in disbelief as his longtime buddy disappears forever and
   ever and ever.

   Rove was finally able to leave the White House, despite Bush's
   heartrending stalling tactics.


   NASHUA, NH--Politically engaged citizen David Haas, 25, described by
   friends and acquaintances as a "big democracy geek," even votes in
   primaries.

     Huge democracy geek

   Haas casts his vote in some obscure Sept. 10 election.

   "I can understand voting in the big elections, like for president or
   governor, or maybe even senator," longtime friend Gregg Becher said
   Monday. "But David votes in, like, mayoral and county-supervisor
   elections. How dorky is that?"

   The right to vote, as guaranteed in the Constitution, is among the
   hallmarks of the American democratic system. But Haas has exercised
   his franchise rights to an embarrassing extreme, voting in every
   federal, state, and local election since turning 18.

   "Normally, David's a reliable, punctual employee," said Dorothy
   Raubel, owner of Raubel Garden Center, where Haas has worked for the
   past seven years. "But then there's that occasional Tuesday morning in
   April or November when he calls in saying he'll be late to work. It's
   a strange habit, but we've all grown accustomed to it by now."

   Haas prides himself on being an informed voter, making sure to
   familiarize himself with candidates' positions before casting a vote.
   A self-described "independent" who tends to favor Democratic
   candidates, he can summarize the basic position of both major parties
   on most issues. As a result, Haas has endured the mockery and derision
   of those around him.

   "On Sept. 10, he showed up late to work, and you could just tell he'd
   been voting," coworker Mike Summers said. "He was holding something in
   his hand, and we were like, 'Hey, Haasenpfeffer, whatcha got there?'
   He said it was the League of Women Voters candidate guide. So Rob
   [Mularkey] says, 'League of Women Voters? Now I know why you vote so
   much--you want to horn in on that hot women-voter action!' David
   didn't even smile; he just got all huffy and said the guide was from
   the morning paper and that copies were available to the public."

   Richard Prohaska, Haas' next-door neighbor, can attest to Haas'
   strange dedication to the American political process. Over the years,
   Prohaska said he has seen him get into numerous doorstep discussions
   with campaign workers and canvassing local politicians.

   "About two months ago, some alderwoman who was up for reelection was
   going door-to-door passing out leaflets," Prohaska said. "I took one,
   thanked her, and closed the door as fast as I could. About 30 minutes
   later, I'm backing the car out of the garage to wash it, and there's
   David talking to her on his porch. I go to get the hose, and when I
   come back, he's actually inviting her into his home. I was half-done
   waxing when she finally came out. Either they had one hell of a
   quickie, or David cares deeply about local politics. Knowing him, it
   was definitely the latter."

   Though it's not clear why Haas insists on voting in every election,
   there is no shortage of speculation.

   "My guess is, it's his way of hiding from the real world," said
   Jennifer Thorsten, Haas' sister. "He's always been interested in
   politics. He was on the debate team in high school and got a B.A. in
   poli sci in college. I've tried to get him to skip an election, but he
   never does. He says that only by exercising our democratic freedoms do
   we keep our democracy healthy and vital. Whatever, David."


   WASHINGTON, DC--Democratic candidate John Kerry seems to truly believe
   he has a chance at winning the presidency in 2004, the adorable
   Massachusetts senator revealed Monday.

   [4]Enlarge Image Adorable Democratic Candidate 

   Kerry, looking very nice all dressed up.

   "The current administration's reckless approach to tax cuts is a huge
   fiscal gamble," said the plucky politician. "It benefits the wealthy,
   hurts the poor, and will never succeed in restoring broad-based
   economic growth and financial discipline."

   "We must act now, before our nation plunges deeper into debt," added
   Kerry, sounding as cute as ever. "When George Bush took office, there
   was a projected budget surplus of $5.6 trillion from 2002 to 2011.
   Now, economists project hundreds of billions of dollars in deficits
   for the same time period."

   The precocious Kerry is one of nine candidates in the race for the
   Democratic presidential nomination.

   "That is so great," said a beaming Dan Rather following a report on
   CBS Evening News. "Kerry says he will beat not only all the White
   House hopefuls in the primary, but also President Bush in the
   election. Keep it up, champ!"

   In spite of Bush's campaign war chest of more than $40 million, Kerry
   maintains a positive outlook.

   "Our country cannot afford to stand behind a president who cuts taxes
   in the face of huge military spending," Kerry said on NBC's Meet The
   Press Sunday. "We must choose a leader who is not afraid to make
   economic decisions that make us stronger in the future, not just the
   ones he thinks will keep him in office."

   "Yes, sir, 'Mr. President,'" bemused interviewer Tim Russert said.
   "Whatever you say."

   Kerry has campaigned tirelessly since announcing earlier this year
   that he wanted to run for president.

   "I believe it's time to turn this country around," Kerry said at a
   campaign stop in Davenport, IA. "On virtually every issue, the
   president has moved America in the wrong direction: the budget busted,
   the economy down, the stock market down, unemployment up, the
   uninsured up, and an America increasingly isolated in the world."

   [5]Enlarge Image Adorable Democratic Candidate jump 

   House Majority Leader Tom DeLay (R-TX) congratulates Kerry for making
   a "super-duper point" about Iraq.

   "He looks so handsome," 68-year-old onlooker Iris Weum said. "It's so
   nice that he's trying to be president."

   Kerry, looking very presidential in his nice new suit and clean white
   shirt, also criticized Bush's strategy for the war in Iraq.

   "The truth is, the Bush Administration went to war without a plan to
   win the peace in Iraq," Kerry said. "Our troops should not be sent
   into battle like campaign props. We must demand more of our
   commander-in-chief."

   Though the road to the presidency is a long one, experts report Kerry
   is "doing a great job."

   "Kerry's presidential campaign had nearly $11 million in the bank at
   the end of June, which tops the field of Democratic hopefuls in terms
   of cash," said Candice Lowman, a political analyst with the
   conservative think tank American Enterprise Institute. "So, that's
   something. Heh heh. What a sweetie."

   Lowman added: "Well, you know, though, as the White House scrambles to
   answer questions about disputed intelligence on Iraq's nuclear-weapons
   programs, at least one of those Democratic candidates might have a
   shot. Stranger things have happened. Aw, who am I kidding?"

   While Kerry seeks to discredit Bush, he must also differentiate
   himself from the eight other campaigning Democrats. His main
   competition within the party comes from U.S. Sen. Joe Lieberman
   (D-CT), U.S. Rep. Richard Gephardt (D-MO), and Vermont Gov. Howard
   Dean, all of whom think they are going to win the election in 2004.

   "Go get 'em, tigers," said Toby Nichols, a top advisor to Bush's
   campaign in 2000. "Go be president, guys."

   Kerry shows no signs of slowing his cute campaign efforts.

   "It is long overdue that America stops being the only industrialized
   nation on this planet that doesn't have health care available for all
   of its citizens," Kerry said in a conference call with reporters. "I'm
   running for president to make health care for all Americans a right
   and not a privilege, to bring costs under control, and to cover the
   uninsured."

   "Awwww," said Adrian Tung, reporter for The Baltimore Sun. "That
   Kerry."


   SAN FRANCISCO--Traveling from as far away as park benches on the other
   side of town, hundreds of rabid temporary housing enthusiasts lined up
   overnight Friday in hopes of being among the first admitted to the
   city's newest homeless shelter.

   "I got here around 3 a.m., and already there was a crowd of people
   slumped over out front," said Jerome Ashford, a die-hard fan of having
   a roof over his head. "I had a feeling it was going to be popular, but
   this turnout--it's just insane. If I can't get in tonight, I don't
   know what I'll do."
   [4]Enlarge Image Hundreds Line 

   Mega-fans of clean bedding line up to be the first to stay in the
   shelter.

   Since last Tuesday, men and women of all ages have left the familiar
   comforts of air-conditioned bus stations and ATM lobbies to brave the
   elements outside the much-anticipated Mission District shelter. While
   most arrive with nothing more than three partially smoked cigarettes
   and a slice of bologna wrapped in a handkerchief, others have come
   fully prepared for the long wait with shopping carts full of supplies.

   "I haven't been this excited since the bakery down the street threw
   out an entire trash bag of bagels," said Lawrence Jones, who took the
   week off from collecting aluminum cans and selling his plasma to a
   nearby blood bank to wait outside the shelter. "Sure, I haven't
   showered in a public fountain in days, and I miss the warmth of my
   alleyway back home, but in the end, it'll all be worth it."

   Although the prospect of sleeping outdoors for nothing more than the
   most basic of human necessities might seem extreme to some, many in
   attendance say they've been looking forward to the shelter's grand
   opening since first reading about it beneath a blanket of newspapers.

   "I started begging for subway fare the moment I heard the news," said
   Wendy Slovic, 41, adding that there was "no way" she could wait a
   couple of weeks for the crowds to thin out. "Say whatever you want,
   but I wouldn't trade my place in line for all the scratch tickets in
   the world."

   For some, the anticipation of lying on a cot or having three meals a
   day is so great that blacking out at night has become an almost
   impossible task. Still many others, who have been eagerly counting
   down the days since fishing an old wall calendar from a dumpster, can
   hardly put their growing elation into words.

   "Where is my soul, they took my soul away," said Michael "Bone" Zahn,
   who for the last week hasn't left his place at the front of the line
   even to use the restroom. "Broken windows like spiderwebs, a stone on
   a rocking chair, rain rain rain rain--begone, you cloth demons!"

   Among the clamoring mass of refuge fanatics, the most devoted arrived
   early Sunday morning in full costume, including old shopping bags that
   had been fashioned into makeshift footwear and heavy ash-colored
   makeup covering their faces and hands. Some even carried a variety of
   creative signs with them.

   "Back when I started lining up to get into shelters, there were only
   10 or 15 of us at most," said Samuel Robins, 63, gesturing at the
   teeming crowd of shelter enthusiasts on hand. "To see how far things
   have come in the last decade alone. It's unbelievable really."

   "Many of the kids here today weren't even alive when the first shelter
   was built on this street," Robins added.

   Despite the growing excitement, a number of mega-fans who have spent
   the last week sleeping in front of the shelter, and the week before
   that sleeping behind the shelter, said they are trying to keep their
   already high expectations in check.

   "I know it probably won't live up to the picture I have in my head,
   but it's still hard not to get your hopes up," harmonica musician
   Johnnie Brooklyn, 39, said. "You want it to be amazing--for there to
   be hot food on hand, maybe even hot water--but at the same time, you
   have to be realistic about these sorts of things."

   "Man, hot water would be nice, though," Brooklyn added.

   While the mob scene in front of the shelter has caused a few minor
   disruptions, including one incident in which a passerby was asked for
   spare change 143 consecutive times, only a handful of residents have
   reacted negatively to the swelling crowds.

   "To be honest, I feel sorry for them," said Beverly Sherman, an
   administrative coordinator for Wells Fargo Bank. "To have so little in
   your life that you think nothing of camping out on the streets for
   days on end--it's depressing."

   Added Sherman: "Seriously, these people need help."


   CAMP FALLUJAH, IRAQ--Once widely acknowledged as the most crucial and
   compelling news story in the world, the U.S. military occupation of
   Iraq was, for the first time in the conflict's five-year history,
   deemed too uninteresting to be considered among 2007's most important
   news events.
   [4]Enlarge Image Iraq War 

   Some soldiers stand around barely making news.

   According to polls, the war, which claimed American and Iraqi lives at
   a record rate throughout the past year, had simply grown too
   repetitive to warrant more than a passing recognition. For 57
   consecutive months, viewers across the country were subjected to
   monotonous and tedious roadside bombings, predictable charges of
   corruption and negligence against private contractors, and a chaotic,
   hard-to-understand political situation that never seemed to change.

   "Is that still going on?" 46-year-old Dayton, OH resident Jim Svaboda
   asked about the war, which many were told would be ending as early as
   May 2003. "Absolutely nothing new has happened over there in months.
   Even the soldiers are tired of it."

   In September, a massive march against the war drew hundreds of
   thousands of protesters to the nation's capital, but failed to capture
   the attention of most major news outlets. And despite the insistence
   of a number of observers and political analysts that the war in Iraq
   was actually getting better, viewers continued to turn away by the
   millions.

   "The average consumer can only read so many articles about 18-month
   redeployments that keep soldiers away from their families for years,
   or the lack of decent body armor, before they just tune out
   completely," said Kris Duncan, professor of media studies at Brandeis
   University. "That kind of thing might have seemed fresh two years ago,
   but people today want something unexpected. Frankly, if I have to
   watch one more clip of amputee footage from Iraq, I'm going to be
   sick."

   Political blogger Janet Friedberg, of HotUpdateNow.com, agreed.

   "The Iraq war is so over," Friedberg said. "Even if it goes on for
   another 10 years."

   Some Washington-based supporters of the war said they were confident
   they could regain public interest in 2008 by pumping hundreds of
   billions of dollars into the conflict.


   CUPERTINO, CA--Apple Computer, producer of the successful iPod MP3
   player, is now offering consumers limited rights to buy their own home
   movies from the media store iTunes for $1.99 each.
   [4]Enlarge Image Steve Jobs 

   Jobs shows off the new software with a clip from the Patterson-Jones
   wedding that he downloaded live.

   "Ladies and gentlemen, the future of home-video viewing is now," Apple
   CEO Steve Jobs said at  a media event Tuesday morning. "As soon as you
   record that precious footage of your daughter's first steps, you'll be
   able to buy it right back from iTunes and download it directly to your
   computer and video iPod."

   Jobs emphasized that the videos will be presented unedited and in
   their original form, save for a small Apple logo in the lower
   right-hand corner of the image to protect the company's copyrighted
   materials from Internet piracy.

   Added Jobs: "No more searching through your movies folder for that
   footage of your 50th wedding anniversary. Now all you need is a
   768Kbps broadband connection and your credit card, and every timeless
   personal memory you've ever shot will be right at your fingertips."

   "Apple has always been about access," said MacAddict editor Ian
   Smythe. "Thanks to this revolutionary new software, all your
   clips--from your son's bris to your father's dying message--are
   available to you, your loved ones, and the 20 million iTunes users,
   who will be able to view them on up to five different computers."

   Apple currently owns an average of 20 gigabytes of digital footage per
   American  family, and it has also acquired an enormous library of the
   tens of millions of analog-format home movies dating from the early
   decades of the 20th century through 2001.

   "No more disappointment for Cynthia Hamill of Hartford, CT when she
   realizes she can't find that tape of herself singing 'Sweet Caroline'
   in the bath as an 8-year-old," Jobs said. "For only a couple of bucks,
   that cherished moment can again be hers."

   Early reaction to the home-video downloads has been positive. "$1.99
   seems reasonable to be able to relive my high-school graduation
   anytime I want," said Patrick Boyd of Pensacola, FL. "My parents don't
   understand the technology, but I can help them get it running whenever
   they want to watch it."

   "It's just a matter of convenience," Mansfield, OH resident Samantha
   Davidoff  said. "Why should I sift through the dozens of unlabeled DV
   tapes in my closet to find that submission tape I made for Extreme
   Makeover when I can just do a search on iTunes? Repurchasing my own
   stuff has never been this intuitive."

   However, some early users report running into technical glitches with
   the software.

   "I was really looking forward to watching my son's Easter greeting
   from Iraq," Eugene, OR resident Luka Bartoli said. "But the image
   froze and an alert came up saying it was temporarily unavailable due
   to low bandwidth. I miss my boy so much."

   Some users say they have had trouble  with the automated process by
   which previews are chosen for their new footage.

   "We were all excited to watch [daughter] Tabitha's birth when we got
   home from the hospital, but we could only view a 30-second clip before
   we had to buy it," Harvey Gaddis of Tulsa, OK said. "All we could see
   in the preview were some of the initial contractions."

   Others say the pricing can be restrictive and is not always timely.

   "I wanted to show my boyfriend a video I made for his birthday of me
   dancing in my underwear to our favorite song," Jessica Dupree of
   Manchester, NH said. "But his credit card was declined. I guess he'll
   just have to get it from someone at work."

   Despite these limitations, observers predict consumers will have
   little choice  once they realize how vast and comprehensive the
   collection is. Many amateur filmmakers are already making a strong
   showing in the iTunes videos charts.

   Eliza Quintana of Montclair, NJ, went online to purchase her
   daughter's fourth birthday party to find that it had reached No. 5 on
   the top video downloads.

   Said Quintana: "I guess I'm not the only one who thinks she's the most
   adorable little girl in the world!"


   NEW YORK--Actor James Gandolfini, best known for his portrayal of mob
   kingpin Tony Soprano on the hit HBO show The Sopranos, was shot to
   death Tuesday in a Greenwich Village restaurant by a fan unable to
   accept the open-ended conclusion of the series finale that aired
   earlier this month.
   [4]Enlarge Image James Gandolfini 

   The dramatic finale millions of Sopranos viewers had been waiting for.

   According to police reports, 28-year-old marketing research assistant
   Louis Bowen walked into the small Italian restaurant Occhiuto's at
   approximately 7:40 p.m. and headed directly toward Gandolfini's table.
   Bowen then drew a snub-nosed .38 revolver from his jacket and shot
   Gandolfini point-blank in the head three times before dropping the gun
   and calmly exiting the eatery.

   Bowen was apprehended two blocks away by two NYPD officers and
   reportedly put up no resistance.

   "I couldn't let it just hang," Bowen told police in a post-arrest
   confession released to the media. "Eight years of my life, and a
   fucking artsy cut to black? It was eating me up inside."

   In his statement, Bowen also used the word "betrayal" to describe the
   series's resolution, which he was convinced set up a climactic death
   for the sociopathic mafia don. The realization that Soprano's brutal
   life of constant fear and anxiety would have no real end slowly drove
   the obsessed Bowen over the edge.
   [5]Enlarge Image Louis Bowen 

   Gandolfini killer Louis Bowen, seized minutes after the shooting,
   confessed: "There could be no other way."

   "I had to tie up the loose ends, I just had to," Bowen said. "I'm
   positive this is exactly how [creator and executive producer] David
   Chase wanted fans to interpret the ending."

   NYPD spokesman Charles Krann expressed regret over the Gandolfini
   slaying, saying that law enforcement "should have known this was
   coming," considering the heavy foreshadowing of impending doom in The
   Sopranos'  final season and the lack of payoff.

   "The symbolism and dialogue clearly conveyed an ominous sense of death
   and decay," Krann said. "Particularly the scene in the second-to-last
   episode where Tony and his brother-in-law talk about death. So for
   Bowen, murdering the actor brought a kind of justice."

   "It probably would have all been different had there been a realistic
   chance of a Sopranos movie," Krann added.

   Gandolfini's murder comes in the wake of several recent attempts on
   the actor's life following the airing of the series finale, which
   included a car bomb that exploded when he remote-started his car, and
   an attempted garroting while he rode in the front seat of a cab.
   Though the star is mourned by millions, many expressed relief that
   Tony Soprano's saga is definitively over.

   "Thank God it finally happened," said Lenox Hill Hospital general
   surgery resident David Kinsky, who was sitting at a table adjacent to
   Gandolfini's at the time of the murder. "I just knew that was how the
   story was meant to end. After the finale, I was so anxious and
   depressed I could hardly sleep."

   Yet other eyewitnesses characterized Gandolfini's death as
   "predictable," "cheap," and "devoid of imagination."

   "I'm an intelligent person--I didn't need to be spoon-fed an ending
   like this," Occhiuto's bartender Kim Romano said. "The killer
   obviously didn't get that the finale was meant to show Tony doomed to
   live out his violent gangland existence in an infinite, monotonous
   loop. Like the Journey song at the end said, 'It goes on and on and on
   and on.'"

   Ironically, far from satisfactorily resolving the fate of Tony
   Soprano, Gandolfini's brutal slaying will most likely only intensify
   the controversy among fans, and will serve as prime water-cooler
   discussion material for days, if not weeks, to come.

   In a late-night City Hall press conference, New York mayor Michael
   Bloomberg refused to comment on the killing.

   "No, no, don't tell me what happened," said Bloomberg, hastily
   plugging his ears. "I TiVo'ed the last six episodes but I've been too
   busy to watch them. No spoilers, please."

   Jessica Simpson

   DALLAS--Speaking to reporters she had invited into her impenetrable
   subterranean Texas lair on Monday, Jessica Simpson gloated over the
   victory she recently achieved after nearly two years of using her
   personal charms, her unique brand of cunning, and every resource at
   her disposal to meticulously plot the downfall of the Cowboys' 2007
   season.

   "Ever since I was a little girl growing up in football-obsessed Texas,
   it's been a dream of mine to completely bring the evil, arrogant
   Cowboys organization and its boorish and cocky fans to their knees.
   But the suave and sophisticated players on that team are
   nigh-unapproachable for a nice country girl like me," Simpson declared
   from her Throne of Thorns, situated in the surveillance room of her
   headquarters. "And then I saw Tony. Instantly I knew that he was the
   weak link, the keystone, the only one for me to exploit."

   According to Simpson, her meticulously crafted plan hinged on
   capturing Romo's interest, artificially inflating his confidence, and
   allowing the Cowboys to gain success early in the season in order to
   create an atmosphere of swaggering arrogance among the team. Then,
   Simpson moved to Phase Beta, playfully distracting them with her
   ubiquitous, flirtatious presence games by waving, cheering, and
   attracting media attention. In addition, Simpson spent months
   analyzing quarterback efficiency, completion rates, and blocking
   stats, as well as dissecting the tendencies of defenses on second and
   third downs, and bending over to convince Romo to try out one of her
   audible calls.

   "He's such a kind and honest man," Simpson added. "Such Midwestern
   earnestness, such gullibility. You couldn't ask for someone dopier to
   manipulate in order to overthrow this so-called 'America's team.'"

   In addition to personally planning each phase of the diabolical plan,
   Simpson invested vast amounts of money into developing a highly
   volatile perfume formulated specifically to confuse and dazzle Romo.
   Created by skilled histological techno-artisans to magnify Simpson's
   natural pheromones, the quasi-hypnotic scent consisted of citrus
   blossoms, rose petals, and a complex combination of beetle secretions
   and the musk glands of Key deer. Simpson estimated the scent reduced
   Romo's I.Q. by as much as 40 points.

   "A few dabs placed on the nape of my neck and Tony's concentration
   melted when I leaned towards him," the multi-platinum recording artist
   said. "As a side effect, the soporific effects of the fragrance often
   forced him to hang on to the ball too long or throw into coverage
   instead of tossing the ball out of bounds."

   Simpson's long-sought opportunity to ruin the Cowboys attempt to
   return to the Super Bowl arose on Oct. 26, 2006 when, watching the
   monitors in the control center of her underground compound, she
   observed unwitting backup quarterback Tony Romo replace the injured
   Drew Bledsoe. Although Simpson said her ambitious scheme was merely in
   its embryonic stage at that point, she stated that when she saw Romo's
   first pass attempt was intercepted, his fate as the pop starlet's
   hapless pawn was sealed.

   Simpson immediately assembled a psychological profile of Romo to
   discover his desires, fears, and favorite color in order to expose him
   on the gridiron. Enlisting the services of paparazzi, Simpson offered
   to tip off the photographers in exchange for them sending reporter
   colleagues to Romo's hometown of Burlington, WI in order to gather
   critical information from his friends and neighbors.

   "No one could stand in my way," Simpson said. "His biggest fans were
   tricked into thinking the reporters wanted to write an article about
   what it was like for Tony to grow up in Burlington. Little did they
   know that I was obtaining knowledge key to eroding his completion
   rate."

   "The hardest thing was restraining myself since I could have made him
   melt down a few weeks into the season," Simpson added, claiming that
   it required a great deal of discipline to stop herself from giving
   Romo too much pumpkin pie when he spent Thanksgiving with her family.
   "But I knew if I really wanted to hurt the team and its stupid,
   slavish fans, I would have to let them get as close as possible and
   then snatch it away. So I let them make the playoffs."

   Although the final phase of Simpson's complex scheme occurred at her
   remote fortress in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico during the Cowboys' playoff
   bye week, the full impact of the plan would not be felt until Simpson
   called Romo at that week's practice every five minutes to apologize
   for jinxing him. Simpson, who asked the team's secretary to announce
   her phone calls over the PA system at the Cowboys facilities, credited
   the move for baffling the team into dropped passes and penalties at
   critical moments in the division playoff game.

   Simpson added that if she has some free time while recording her new
   country album, she would love the chance to ruin the Pro Bowl for the
   12 Cowboys selected.


   STOCKPORT, ENGLAND--British homosexual John Amaechi sent shockwaves
   throughout the sporting world last week when he announced, much to the
   surprise of his family and friends--in addition to NBA players and
   fans--that he lived a double life for five years in which he secretly
   worked as a professional basketball player.
   [4]Enlarge Image John Amaechi 

   "It was difficult living with this secret," said Amaechi, who in his
   new autobiography Man In The Middle reveals that he played in the NBA
   for the Cleveland Cavaliers, Utah Jazz, Orlando Magic, and perhaps
   most shockingly, the New York Knicks. "I loved it and hated it at the
   same time. And I was afraid that if I ever acted on some of my
   impulses, like say by requesting more playing time, that I would have
   ultimately embarrassed myself and everyone close to me."

   "Now, it's like a tremendous weight has been lifted," Amaechi added,
   stating that although he still feels a certain shame about his furtive
   involvement in the often shadowy world of professional basketball, it
   has been a great relief to finally be able to speak openly about his
   professional life.

   According to Amaechi, who spent most of his NBA career on the bench
   and only averaged six points and two rebounds per game, he knew at an
   early age that he was different from all the "normal players" when he
   went undrafted out of college, was unnoticed during his first season
   in which he only played 28 games, and was never involved with guns,
   drugs, or shifty agents. Amaechi claims he never once had the urge to
   record a sub-par rap album.

   Furthermore, no matter where Amaechi played, he always felt "awkward
   and out of place" on the court, adding that he was "never really
   certain if [he] was a center or a power forward."

   "I had no idea," former Cavaliers teammate Terrell Brandon said.
   "Sure, I saw John around the Cavaliers, but I didn't want to jump to
   any conclusions. He was tall, yeah, but he didn't look like a
   basketball player. He didn't act like a basketball player. And just
   because he hung around with a lot of basketball players and sometimes
   wore flashy jewelry, that didn't necessarily mean he was one, y'know?"

   "Oh, please--I knew it all along," former Jazz teammate John Stockton
   said. "I mean, just look at the way he dressed--basketball jersey,
   mesh shorts, sneakers... There was, in my opinion, no doubt that he
   was, at least a little bit. Just because he was homosexual doesn't
   mean he couldn't be a basketball player."

   In his book, Amaechi states that he even hid his occupation from his
   parents because he "came from a traditional British household" and his
   parents would not have approved of their son being an NBA player.
   Amaechi admits he was constantly worried during the Jazz's nationally
   televised playoff series with the Sacramento Kings in 2002, because
   cameras panning over to the bench could have revealed to his family
   and friends at home that he was in the NBA.

   "The last thing you want is for them to find out that way," said
   Amaechi, who claims his parents have been "very supportive and
   accepting, although they don't understand why someone would want that
   kind of life."

   "I think Coach [Jerry Sloan] knew," said Amaechi, adding that Sloan
   treated him differently than his teammates, most of whom played
   significantly more minutes. "And, I am sure that some of the diehard
   fans, the ones who came to every game and stayed even when we were
   getting blown out, I think they knew."

   "But what hurt the most was that I didn't feel comfortable around my
   own teammates," he added. "And if I had told them I was a basketball
   player, I don't think they would have accepted it, or even believed
   it."

   The response to Amaechi's announcement around the league has ranged
   from complete indifference to unconditional support.

   "I can't believe I showered with that guy," said former Jazz teammate
   Karl Malone, who played with Amaechi for two seasons.  "I mean, it's
   just weird. I really think I would have remembered something like
   that."

   "Good for him," said Houston Rockets shooting guard Tracy McGrady, who
   played with Amaechi when he was on the Orlando Magic. "You know, I
   wish he would have come out earlier. Like in the third quarter of some
   games. Maybe he wasn't the best gay basketball player I've ever seen,
   but we could have used another big man in the lineup."

   Though he refused to name names, Amaechi said that he knows other men
   out there who, unsuspected by the world, are also living secret lives
   as professional basketball players.

   "I just hope my new book will inspire them to come out when they
   retire," Amaechi added. "Despite the way we're portrayed in the media,
   and in spite of the way we're treated by the world at large, being an
   NBA player is nothing to be ashamed of."


   The Democrats' resounding midterm election triumph--sweeping both
   houses of Congress, as well as a majority of state legislatures and
   governorships--immediately bred suspicion among party leadership that
   Karl Rove, President Bush's closest adviser and the political
   mastermind behind Bush's rise to power, was once again pulling the
   strings.
   [4]Enlarge Image Karl Rove R 

   "Let's not celebrate just yet," Democratic National Committee Chairman
   Howard Dean said on Nov. 8, shortly after the more closely contested
   seats were declared in the Democrats' favor. "This decisive Democratic
   victory could very well be part of an unfathomably brilliant plan of
   Karl Rove's to position the Republicans for the 2016 elections, and
   probably beyond. History has shown that the man is an unstoppable evil
   genius. You can't underestimate him."

   Rove, who has consistently proven himself over the last 12 years to be
   the only person in Washington capable of affecting national elections,
   refused to comment.

   "We were blindsided when he gave us the House, but then Rove really
   twisted the knife with the Senate victory," CNN's Paul Begala said.
   "Evidently, he must be five or six steps ahead on the chessboard,
   executing a strategy we can only guess at."

   Political watchdog groups said that Rove left too many obvious clues.
   They pointed to the breaking of the Mark Foley sex scandal, the Jack
   Abramoff lobbying scandal, the political downfall of House Majority
   Leader Tom DeLay, the refusal of embattled Speaker Of The House Dennis
   Hastert and Secretary Of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to step down, and the
   deaths of hundreds of U.S. soldiers in Iraq since the 2004
   presidential election. Even the escalating civil insurrection in Iraq
   "sports the trademark Rove touch," in the words of one blogger for the
   political website The Huffington Post.

   "For a little while there, it looked like Rove's nefarious master plan
   might be undone by Kerry's bungled remarks about the troops, but it
   succeeded anyway," New York Times columnist Paul Krugman said.
   "Unless, of course, Kerry's remarks were all part of the plan, too."

   Still others have posited a second Rove involvement theory, in which
   they believe he predicted a Republican victory two weeks' prior to
   Election Day so he could bet heavily on a Democratic victory and make
   "an enormous killing in Vegas." They speculate Rove then either kept
   the winnings for himself or funneled them into a GOP slush fund.

   Rove did not return calls concerning these charges.

   "Can't people see we're playing right into this man's hands?"
   Democratic Congressional Campaign Chairman Rep. Rahm Emanuel (D-IL)
   said. "The fact that he did not address this issue publicly proves his
   collusion. Leave it to Rove to poison a victory this sweet."


   NAGANO, JAPAN--Mere hours after eating what he claims to be his
   "farewell meal" Tuesday, longtime consumer of comestible goods Takeru
   Kobayashi formally announced that, after a career that has spanned
   nearly his entire lifetime, he has decided to walk away from eating
   food.
   [4]Enlarge Image Kobayashi 

   "My physical gifts, including my God-given ability to ingest food, are
   still there, but my passion for it is not," said a gaunt, visibly
   fatigued Kobayashi, speaking through his interpreter in a barely
   audible whisper. "Yes, chewing and swallowing food has always played
   an important part in my life, and if I'd never done it, I probably
   wouldn't be here today. But after nearly 30 years, I am tired of
   eating."

   "I used to eat because I wanted to, but lately it seems like I only do
   it because I feel like I have to," added Kobayashi, who claims that he
   was in the middle of eating his 52nd barbecue chicken wing last week
   when he realized he no longer possessed the same hunger he did earlier
   in his career. "I knew it was time to step aside and give others the
   chance to eat."

   The announcement has come as a shock to those close to the Japanese
   star, who claim that for Kobayashi, eating was more than just a
   hobby--that a powerful, mysterious force deep inside of him compelled
   him to eat. Many expected him to continue eating until the day he
   died.

   "Takeru used to live, breathe, and eat food," said Hideki Ihara,
   Kobayashi's uncle. "Not a day went by that he didn't eat. He based his
   whole day around it. He'd be down in the kitchen every morning at the
   crack of dawn, squeezing in an early meal. He'd be the last one at the
   dinner table each night. In fact, he loved it so much that he would
   leave his job in the middle of the day and spend his lunch hour eating
   food. Now that's dedication."

   "I don't know how he's going to survive without eating," Ihara added.

   According to Kobayashi, the transition from a life of eating to one of
   not eating has not been easy.

   "Do I still crave food? Of course--usually about three times per day,"
   Kobayashi said. "There are times when the thought of never eating
   again really hurts. There are times when it burns, times when it
   aches, times when it induces fainting, and times when my blood
   pressure suddenly drops and I experience heart palpitations for two
   straight minutes. Like any change in life, it's going to be an
   adjustment."

   Kobayashi also said that, because he was born into a family of
   lifelong food-eaters, he was afraid to explore other career paths
   throughout his life, believing that doing so might upset his parents.

   "I've been eating ever since I was in diapers," Kobayashi said. "My
   parents encouraged me to start eating at a very young age, although
   they sometimes forced me to eat things I did not want."

   "After 29 years, I'd like to try some new things, like kayaking,
   mountain climbing, or ingesting liquids," he added.

   Although Kobayashi's friends are happy for him, they have expressed
   concern for his well-being, claiming that he has appeared listless,
   depressed, and seems to be wasting away since his retirement. Some
   think that the decision to give up eating may even have long-term
   effects on Kobayashi's health.

   "Ever since he retired from eating, it's like part of him is gone,"
   Kobayashi's friend Tsuyoshi Hasegawa said. "Specifically, the part of
   the brain that regulates autonomic activities and heat sensitivity."

   Despite his family members pleading with him at his bedside to
   reconsider his decision, Kobayashi maintains that he "[does] not want
   to become one of those washed-up guys who doesn't know when to quit
   and ends up having to eat through a straw."

   "There are things about eating that I will miss--the sandwiches, the
   hard-boiled eggs, the satisfying feeling you get after replenishing
   your body's nutrients, and especially the fried dumplings," Kobayashi
   said. "And there are certain things about eating I won't miss--mostly
   the hot dogs."


   NORTHFIELD, IL--In an effort to reach out to a segment of the
   population completely ignored by the company for more than a century,
   Kraft Foods unveiled Monday its new line of Kraft Doubles--jointly
   wrapped slices of American cheese specially designed with couples in
   mind.

   "After years of catering exclusively to depressed, lonely men in their
   30s, Kraft is proud to present a product for people who are capable of
   experiencing love and happiness," Kraft CEO Irene Rosenfeld said at a
   press conference. "No longer will couples who have a mutual craving
   for processed American cheese have to endure the hassle of unwrapping
   two individual slices."
   [4]Enlarge Image Kraft Doubles 

   Kraft's newest cheese product has mended troubled relationships.

   According to Rosenfeld, the Kraft Doubles will be packaged side by
   side in the brand's iconic twice-folded cellophane sheath. Once the
   rectangular orange product has been removed from its wrapper, lovers
   can easily separate the slices into two equal portions by carefully
   tearing along the perforated line in the center of the Double. At this
   point, it is recommended couples gingerly roll up the slices and feed
   them to each another.

   "Kraft Doubles are the perfect snack for any romantic occasion,
   including picnics in the park, moonlit strolls along the beach, and
   sexual intercourse," Rosenfeld said. "Finally, the great taste of
   Kraft American cheese and the feeling of warmth that comes from tender
   affection with another human being can be enjoyed simultaneously."

   "This Valentine's Day, give her the gift that says, 'This cheese is
   for us,'" Rosenfeld added, before assuring consumers that despite the
   new packaging, the cheese product will retain its classic cheese-like
   taste.

   Kraft reportedly decided to launch the new product after reviewing
   market research which showed that only 8 percent of its regular
   customers reported having a spouse, a significant other, any history
   of dating, or a normal and healthy social life. Marketing director
   David Merrill believes these low numbers are due to the fact that
   there has historically been only one cheese slice inside each wrapper.

   "Who wants to sit down to an elegant candlelit dinner with their
   lover, and next to the wine and the caviar see two individually
   wrapped squares of yellow cheese?" Merrill said. "When two people who
   love each other peel off the laminated-foil casing of a pasteurized
   cheese-food product, they want what's inside to reflect their
   everlasting union."

   Merrill went on to note that Kraft Doubles are best when paired with a
   light red wine such as a pinot noir.
   [5]Enlarge Image Kraft Date 

   A new ad bills Kraft Doubles as "the perfect way to tell the one you
   love you're ready for another 25 years."

   Kraft research also suggested that the small percentage of couples who
   do purchase Kraft Singles often report that the product does not
   satisfy their needs as both consumers and lovers. Kraft vice president
   Jane Hilk theorizes that, until now, every time a couple hungered for
   American cheese, they would attempt to split a Kraft Single down the
   middle, inevitably resulting in uneven cheese distribution, which in
   turn has led to arguments, domestic abuse, and, in some cases,
   divorce.

   "This is the world's first adjoined-cheese-slice product that's both
   practical and sexy," Hilk said. "Just think how many relationships
   Kraft Doubles will save."

   Hilk noted that Kraft Doubles are not strictly for couples, but also
   for single men with a big appetite and a busy schedule.

   "For the successful bachelor who hasn't had time to settle down but
   still hopes to some day, there is an added advantage," Hilk continued.
   "Should a woman he fancies ever enter his home and peer into his
   refrigerator's dairy drawer, she will know right away that he is a man
   who values commitment."

   If the new product is as popular as Kraft projects, the company plans
   to expand its line in 2009 to include the new family-sized Kraft
   Quadruples, as well as the Kraft Super-Single, which is one
   three-inch-thick slice of American cheese.


   DAYTON, OH--In a decision that senior partner Bob Davis called "long
   overdue," local law firm Davis, Cassini & Snyder confirmed Tuesday its
   intentions to purchase one of those big leather chairs--the
   burgundy-colored ones with the gold buttons and the thick, fancy
   armrests--sometime in the upcoming weeks.
   [4]Enlarge Image The chair 

   The chair, with the gold buttons and everything.

   Despite the prior acquisition of several big wooden legal bookshelves,
   a half-dozen of those gold-colored desk lamps with the green plastic
   panels covering the light bulbs, and several portraits of
   serious-looking lawyers and judges from the 1800s, the office has
   reportedly lacked a big leather chair since its opening in 2005.

   "We are eagerly anticipating the arrival of the chair," junior partner
   John Cassini told reporters. "As a respectable law firm, the office of
   Davis, Cassini & Snyder needs an expensive leather chair that doesn't
   swivel, raise, or lower, but just sits there in the office."

   Cassini stated that he couldn't describe the exact name or brand of
   chair he was referring to, but confirmed that he had sat in a similar
   chair before. He further insisted that, as a registered member of the
   bar, he would "definitely know one if [he] saw it," and that a lot of
   law offices have them.

   The decision to purchase the chair, office sources said, came after
   Bob Davis made a visit to the nearby law firm Berkman & Berkman. Davis
   reported back to his associates that the rival firm had one of those
   leather chairs where the material "poofs out" due to the indents in
   the fabric, thereby creating what Davis referred to as the chair's
   signature diamond-shaped leather pouches.

   "It also had the gold buttons that embroider the armrests," said
   Davis, who later went on to note Berkman & Berkman's recent courtroom
   success. "And the [big leather] chair had that claw-foot design on its
   legs."

   "Great chair," he added.

   Davis told reporters that, as senior partner, the final decision on
   the chair would ultimately go through him, but that he planned to
   delegate the responsibility of locating the chair to the firm's
   administrative assistant, Kathy Plaitano.

   "I told Kathy that if she is having trouble finding exactly what we
   want, she should watch The Firm or Philadelphia," Davis said. "Those
   movies definitely have the kind of chairs we're talking about."

   According to members of the legal team, even if the chair Plaitano
   finds fulfills the requirements for both color and seat width, the
   firm will not, under any circumstance, accept a leather chair that has
   metal legs, is on wheels, or has a medium-height back.

   In addition, the attorneys were adamant that any potential client who
   sits in the chair should "sink in just a little" so that only the
   individual's head would be visible if someone was to approach the
   chair from behind.

   "It has to be that kind of chair," Cassini said. "We won't settle for
   anything less."

   Though the attorneys unanimously agreed to purchase the chair,
   concerns have been raised as to the chair's ultimate location in the
   office.

   "If I know Davis, he'll want to put it in the waiting room next to the
   fern," Snyder said. "But if it's the kind of chair I'm thinking of, I
   think we should put it across from my desk to give my clients a nice
   place to sit during their appointments."

   Davis and Cassini refused to respond to Snyder's statement, but when
   pressed for comment stated that it might be in the law firm's best
   interest to purchase more than one chair.

