
   LOS ANGELES--Acting on information gathered from billboards,
   alternative weeklies, and Internet banner ads, an FBI strike team
   liberated 14 dazed, sallow, and undernourished American Apparel models
   in a raid on the controversial organization's downtown Los Angeles
   compound early Monday.

   "There were girls lying everywhere--draped over furniture, sprawled
   spread-eagled in the corner, and huddled close like animals," FBI
   Special Agent Curtis Froman, who oversaw  the raid, said at a press
   conference. "Many of them had been given nothing more than a pair of
   tube socks or men's briefs to wear."
   [4]Enlarge Image American Apparel 

   Law enforcement officials continued clearing models from the compound
   into the early morning hours.

   Froman said it took agents nearly 20 minutes to cut through the
   holding-cell padlocks, only to find the ambiguously ethnic-looking
   captives living in "unspeakable conditions."

   "They just stared up at us with blank expressions of utter confusion,"
   Froman added. "I don't think they'd seen the sun in weeks."

   Nine American Apparel security enforcers were also killed during the
   raid.

   The models, who range in age from 18 to 22 but appear to be 12 to 14,
   were taken to an emergency safehouse where they were given food,
   clothing, and access to soap. Officials said they were conducting
   tests to determine whether the girls were subjected to brainwashing
   during their captivity.

   "I thought it would never end," said Fiara, a Brazilian-Finnish
   brunette who was held in an empty white room for weeks in nothing but
   Lycra tights and a halter top. "I can't believe how good it feels to
   wear something that buttons again."

   After freeing the captives, many of whom appeared drugged, agents
   seized thousands of amateur Polaroids and several dozen pairs of
   oversized sunglasses whose purpose remains unclear, FBI reports said.
   [5]American Apparel Slideshow 

   Evidence From The Case

   "We may never know the full extent of what went on in there," Special
   Agent Hugh Conroy said. "We do know they were held against their will
   in an airless, windowless basement under harsh fluorescent lights,
   forced to sign liability waivers, and posed in contorted positions on
   bare cement floors. "The humiliating combinations of flimsy unitards,
   leg warmers, and '70s-inspired tank tops they were forced to wear
   clearly show a deranged mind at work. Those poor, poor girls."

   Several models said they were initially drawn in by American Apparel's
   progressive environmental policies, sweatshop-free manufacturing, and
   youthful corporate identity. But their dreams of success were soon
   shattered.

   "Before I knew it, I was squatting on the floor in this humid room
   with a camera pointed at my crotch," said model Gabrielle, whose image
   can be found on the back page of this newspaper.

   Law enforcement agencies have long suspected that the company's
   much-vaunted vertically integrated structure deliberately hid the
   unpleasant realities of this international model-exploitation ring.
   Despite their ongoing investigations, agents present during the raid
   were "completely unprepared" for the level of degradation they
   discovered inside the American Apparel facility.

   "I'll never forget those hollow, emotionless eyes," Special Agent Jane
   Cosgrove said. "I don't care how many stock options they were
   given--nothing is worth what those girls went through."

   Still at large, FBI sources say, is the models' alleged captor, a
   shadowy, unkempt, elaborately facial-haired figure in his late 30s or
   early 40s known only as "the Creepy Man."


   SAN CLEMENTE, CA--Five years after settling in southern California and
   trying to blend into American society, a six-man terrorist cell
   connected to the militant Islamist organization Army of Martyrs has
   reportedly grown too complacent to conduct its suicide mission, an
   attack on the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station.
   [4]Enlarge Image After Five Years 

   Three of the six terrorists spend an afternoon together watching an
   America's Next Top Model marathon.

   According to cell leader and boat owner Jameel al-Sharif, the
   potentially devastating operation, which involves breaching the
   station's reactor core and triggering a meltdown that could rival the
   Chernobyl disaster, "can wait."

   "We remain wholly committed to the destruction of America, the Great
   Satan," al-Sharif said. "But now is not a good time for us. The season
   finale of Lost was such a cliff- hanger that we have to at least catch
   the first episode of the new season. After that, though, death to the
   infidels."

   "Probably," added al-Sharif, who noted that his nearly $6,000 in
   credit-card debt from recent purchases of a 52-inch HDTV and a
   backyard gas grill prevents him from buying needed materials for the
   attack.

   Though the members of the cell said that they "live only to spill the
   blood of crusaders who oppress Muslims," they cited additional reasons
   for the delay, including an unexpired free Netflix trial and nagging
   lower-back pain.

   "I think I'm entitled to a little time to fully enjoy the in-dash MP3
   adapter and heads-up display that Allah, in His infinite wisdom, has
   seen fit to provide me with," munitions expert Mohammed Akram said of
   the 2006 Mercury Mariner that is intended to be used as a car bomb
   during the attack. "Also, I have nine months left on the lease. But
   after that, I am more than willing to load it with explosives and go
   to my glory in its all-leather interior and heated seats."

   Cell member Sayyid al-Tantawi, a Cairo-born former physics professor
   who was able to obtain employment at San Onofre as a reactor
   technician, once routinely worked 18-hour days so he could secretly
   obtain security codes and detailed schematics of the facility. But
   since his promotion to senior project manager last November,
   al-Tantawi has grown accustomed to perks such as higher pay, mandatory
   vacation time, delegation of responsibilities, and long lunches with
   other managers.

   "Don't get me wrong, I totally wish swift and painful death to all
   American pigs, especially that jerk [general manager] Dave [Landis],"
   al-Tantawi said. "But I'm no longer the new guy--why bust my ass all
   day long anymore? When I get home after a day at work, I don't savor
   staying up all night designing dirty-bomb triggering mechanisms like I
   did when I first got here. Sometimes I just want to pop in a CD by
   that soulful infidel Chris Daughtry and relax."

   Al-Tantawi added that due to the sedentary nature of his job, he would
   have to "lose a few pounds, Allah willing" before being able to
   fulfill his most challenging task: infiltrating the reactor's spent
   fuel storage area and draining its coolant, thereby triggering a fire
   and releasing radioactive material.

   Indeed, general preparedness appears to be the cell's greatest
   stumbling block.

   "Five a.m. is when the facility is most vulnerable to attack, when the
   morning shift security personnel replace the overnight crew," said
   Adib Dhakwan, the cell's second-in-command. "Unfortunately, Starbucks
   doesn't open until six, and I don't know about you, but if I don't
   have that first cup of coffee, forget it."

   Despite the terrorists' successful assimilation into American society,
   the FBI has been monitoring the activities of the "San Clemente Six"
   since late 2005. According to declassified intelligence documents, the
   cell's status was recently downgraded to "low risk," due in part to a
   near absence of cell phone chatter to parties other than Moviefone,
   and last month's online purchase of a hammock.


   HARTFORD, CT--Eager to distinguish himself in the nine-member field of
   Democratic candidates, presidential hopeful Sen. Joe Lieberman (D-CT)
   pledged Monday to "gloss over any and all issues boring to Americans
   today."

   [4]Enlarge Image Lieberman Pledges To Gloss Over The Boring Issues 

   Lieberman tells Hartford voters he'll be brief.

   "Are you sick of politics as usual in Washington?" Lieberman said at a
   campaign fundraiser held at the downtown Hartford Hilton. "Are you
   sick of politics in general? Well, I can see why. Politics, frankly,
   is boring. In this campaign, I promise to slide past the tedious
   issues and get to the point: I want to be your next president! Vote
   Joe in 2004!"

   "Endless details, mathematical proposals, and tax plans," Lieberman
   continued. "Why should the nation as a whole have to tolerate all
   that?"

   Lieberman, among the most politically moderate of the Democratic
   hopefuls, first delivered this new stump speech in New York on Oct. 3.
   On that day, he promised a group of factory workers in Buffalo that
   all future speeches would focus on his ultimate goals instead of on
   the intricate workings of his actual proposals.

   "Americans are very busy, and I won't bore them with the details of my
   positions," Lieberman said. "I think George W. Bush is doing a
   terrible job as America's chief executive, both at home and abroad.
   I'd do much better. I'd keep America safe. It's all very complicated
   when you get into it, so I'll spare you the boring legislation-this
   and appropriations-that. All you need to know is that I'm on it."

   To growing applause, Lieberman quickly ran through a list of issues
   important to voters.

   "The economy? I'll make it better," he said. "Reconstruction of Iraq?
   No problem. International relations? I'll patch those up in my first
   100 days. Poverty? I got a plan."

   "World trade? Women's rights? Education? Yes, yes, and yes," said
   Lieberman, who spent the next 45 minutes discussing the Red Sox.

   Reached by phone at his office Tuesday, Lieberman re-emphasized his
   commitment to instituting change, rather than talking about the
   mechanics of instituting change.

   "This great nation needs a leader who's willing to roll up his
   sleeves," he said. "Exactly what I'm going to do, and how I'm going to
   do it--ack, forget about it. Unlike some of my opponents, I solemnly
   pledge not to annoy you with endless status reports in the process."

   This new message marks a change for Lieberman, who relied on
   hard-to-understand, fact-riddled positions during his unsuccessful bid
   for the vice-presidency in 2000.

   "I'm the same Joe Lieberman I've always been, just a little easier to
   tolerate in long stretches," Lieberman said. "I haven't changed on the
   issues, though--just look at my voting record. Actually, don't waste
   your time. Those things are really dense."

   When pressed for more information, Lieberman sighed.

   "Well, you asked for it," Lieberman said. "I'm pro-business,
   pro-national-security, and pro-health-care. I'm a bit more
   conservative than some of the other Democratic candidates in this
   race. But I'm a lot less boring. That's the last time you'll hear all
   of that."

   A reporter asked Lieberman for his stance on Chinese currency
   valuation after Monday's speech.

   Lieberman shook his head. "Listen, I know that the renminbi has been
   pegged within a narrow band around 8.3 to the U.S. dollar for nearly a
   decade, and that China refuses to revalue it despite increasing
   international pressure," he said. "But everyone else in the country
   doesn't need to know that. If there's a problem, I'll do everything in
   my power to fix it. Now, back to the real issue: I can and will skip
   right past the whoozits and whatsits. Not just during the election,
   but throughout my entire term as president."

   While he acknowledged that some critics see Lieberman's pledge as
   simplistic, campaign director Craig Smith said it demonstrates the
   senator's understanding of the average voter.

   Lieberman's web site is only one page long. It features a short
   bullet-point list of his stance on issues--pro-business,
   pro-national-security, and pro-health-care--and two helpful charts of
   "Joe's Likes" and "Joe's Dislikes."

   Many voters have responded positively to Lieberman's campaign promise.

   "I liked his speech. It was nice and short," said Carol Meadows, 45,
   of Lancaster, PA. "He said he'd fix everything that's wrong, and then
   the music started playing again."

   Some critics have dismissed Lieberman's concise message as a
   vote-grabbing ploy, launched in response to the record-breaking
   fundraising of former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean and retired Army Gen.
   Wesley Clark. But Lieberman's press secretary, Jano Cabrera, insisted
   that the senator's campaign strategy was intended to benefit the
   public, not the campaign.

   "Let me ask you this: Would the average American rather read the
   Financial Times or People?" Cabrera said. "Joe Lieberman is finally
   giving the people what they want, while other candidates just go on
   and on and on and on."

   "It's like, next campaign stop: Yawnsville," said Cabrera, who then
   pretended to fall asleep standing up. "Wake me up when Howard Dean's
   done talking."


   HARRISONBURG, VA--Rescue workers and concerned neighbors gathered
   Saturday outside the Conklin residence on Waterson Avenue where
   authorities say local child David Conklin remains trapped in a
   dangerously lame family, a harrowing ordeal now entering its 13th
   tense year.
   [4]Enlarge Image Rescue workers attempt to rush life-saving games and
   snacks to the boy. 

   Rescue workers attempt to rush life-saving games and snacks to the
   boy.

   When police arrived on the scene Saturday morning, David--who recently
   entered junior high and is clearly not a baby anymore--was found
   pinned under two inflexible parents who rendered him completely
   immobile. Officers are working around the clock to free the boy and
   give him a second chance at a social life.

   "At this time we're doing everything we can to make [David] as
   comfortable as possible," said Lt. William Barnes of the Harrisonburg
   Fire Department, who coordinated efforts to provide the 12-year-old
   with a warm North Face jacket to replace the retarded hand- me-down
   parka that once belonged to his older brother, Stephen. "But
   realistically, this situation could go on for at least another six
   years. That is, God forbid, if he doesn't die of boredom first."
     Conklin

   Conklin

   Authorities are still unsure how the seventh grader became trapped in
   such a boring family, though David's 15-year-old sister, Laura, put
   forth several theories, including speculation that David was an
   accident or, alternatively, was adopted from gypsies.

   With rescue efforts continuing throughout the afternoon, early hopes
   that David would escape through a small hole of free time between
   dinner and lights-out were quickly dashed when he became entangled in
   a family game night and was nearly crushed by the tedium of playing
   hand after tortuous hand of UNO.

   "We're trying to get a Nintendo Wii in there to relieve some of the
   pressure," Barnes said. "David is in a very tight spot. Even if we get
   him the game console, the restrictions he's currently under may
   prevent him from using it."

   "Our biggest fear right now is the possibility that David is being
   smothered," Barnes continued.

   A second chance for relief came at 8:35 p.m., when David's dogged
   efforts to free himself forced his parents to budge slightly and
   consider allowing their son to watch television at friend Philip
   Kirchart's house. However, David's potential escape route was almost
   instantly blocked by a massive pile of homework.
   [5]Enlarge Image Desperate Situation 

   "This is a huge setback in freeing David," said Barnes, who expressed
   frustration with the deteriorating situation. "If he doesn't get that
   diorama for Mrs. Engles' class off his back before nightfall, I'm
   afraid we'll just have to wait until morning."

   Despite all attempts by his rescuers, David's situation has grown
   increasingly grim. At 4:16 p.m., the boy nearly died of embarrassment
   after his mother asked him if there were any cute girls in his class,
   and again less than two hours later at dinner, when she openly
   discussed his need for new underwear.

   Additionally, medical experts said that David's preexisting condition,
   known as smartmouth, could be severely exacerbated by the dumb, unfair
   family environment he has been subjected to.

   "This becomes an even more serious situation for someone like David,"
   said Louis Vianna, a paramedic on the scene. "A diagnosed wiseacre in
   a stifling environment like that could suffer a full-scale grounding
   at any moment, which would cut David off from vital weekend plans."

   David's agonizing experience has elicited an outpouring of support
   from the community. A local radio station recently held a fundraiser
   to purchase David the desperately needed dirt bike that the
   fun-deprived boy has repeatedly begged for throughout the ordeal, and
   people from around the country have sent letters to David, urging him
   to hang on until he can get his driver's license.

   "No child should have to go through something like this," said Carla
   Berman, one of the dozens of anxious citizens keeping vigil outside
   the Conklin house. "That poor, brave kid. It's not like he asked to be
   born into this."


   LOS ANGELES--If you ask Dale Henderson, a local assassin who
   celebrated his eighth wedding anniversary last month, lone gunman John
   Kingsley has no idea how good he has it.

   Able to stay out as late as he wants holding innocent civilians
   hostage, and free to make weekend murder plans without first getting
   permission from his wife, the 29-year-old bachelor is "as lucky as
   they come."
   [4]Enlarge Image Lone Gunman 

   Henderson, stuck at home doing chores again.

   "What I'd give to trade places with that guy," Henderson said Monday
   after watching Kingsley shoot up a community college campus on the
   evening news. "Running around firing indiscriminately into a crowd of
   people--now that's someone who doesn't have to wake up early to go
   furniture shopping tomorrow."

   "Enjoy it while it lasts, buddy," Henderson added. "Enjoy it while it
   lasts."

   Henderson, 37, who said he hasn't had a spare moment to himself atop
   an abandoned warehouse in months, openly admitted that he was jealous
   of Kingsley's lifestyle. Tired of always having to stop trailing a
   potential victim to pick up a gallon of milk, Henderson said he can
   only hope Kingsley doesn't take his freedom for granted.

   "John should appreciate how fortunate he is to be able to spend all
   night staring unblinkingly at his bedroom's ceiling fan," Henderson
   said. "Don't get me wrong, I love Sheila. But sometimes a man just
   needs some time alone to plan the untimely death of a local judge."

   After an afternoon spent wistfully leafing through old news clippings
   from his life as a carefree, single gunman, Henderson seemed to long
   for the days when he could walk up to any random attractive woman on
   the street, put a gun to her head, and pull the trigger without having
   to feel guilty.

   Henderson also said he wished he still had the freedom to cover the
   walls of his home with photos of supermodels, celebrity athletes, and
   other future targets rather than the dainty flower patterns his wife
   selected.

   "Often when I'm helping Sheila clean out the attic, I wonder what that
   lucky lone gunman is up to with all his spare time," Henderson said.
   "Probably climbing to the top of a clock tower or threatening to pump
   some worthless bastard full of lead if he calls the police."

   Added Henderson, "God, I know I would be."

   Kingsley's recent slaughter at an area McDonald's has also been
   difficult for the married gunman to endure, since his wife would
   "probably have [his] head" if he ever set foot inside a fast-food
   restaurant. And, with countless new responsibilities, Henderson
   claimed that, unlike Kingsley, the closest he ever gets to terrorizing
   a post office nowadays is going out to mail Christmas cards.

   "It must be nice not to have to answer to anyone, or explain where
   you've been all day," Henderson said. "And I can't imagine John has
   ever totally missed the visiting presidential motorcade because
   someone forgot to put gas in the car."

   Though Henderson remains jealous that, as a young wanted man, Kingsley
   gets to sleep in a different safe house every night, he admitted that
   matrimony still has its upsides.

   "It's nice to know there's always someone waiting there for you,
   regardless of how bad your day has been," Henderson said. "Plus, the
   alibi thing doesn't hurt."


   LOS ANGELES-Libertarian Party officials announced Monday that their
   2000 National Convention will be held August 18-20 in an efficiency
   apartment just off La Brea Avenue in Los Angeles.

   [4]Enlarge Image L.A. Efficiency Chosen 

   A worker makes preparations for the upcoming 2000 Libertarian
   Convention.

   "As one of the nation's largest cities, Los Angeles provides an ideal
   stage for us to spread our message of personal and economic
   self-governance," said Libertarian national director Steve Dasbach,
   explaining his party's choice of venue at a kitchenette press
   conference. "Also, it was [Libertarian Party national chairman] David
   [Bergland]'s turn to host, since it was held at my place in '96."

   The convention is expected to be the largest in party history, drawing
   upwards of 45 Libertarians to the second-floor apartment in the
   Mulholland Terrace complex. In preparation for the event, 15 extra
   folding chairs have been ordered by party leaders, as well as 12
   two-liter bottles of Pepsi, Sprite, and Diet Mountain Dew.

   "It is our belief that government's role is simply to defend the
   citizen from coercion and violence, and nothing more," said
   Libertarian presidential candidate Harry Browne, hanging a
   "Browne-Olivier 2000" banner above the efficiency's futon. "That means
   military service should be voluntary, the minimum wage should be
   eliminated, and taxes should be replaced with user fees for services."

   Added Browne: "Feel free to take our two-minute quiz to find out if
   you're a Libertarian and don't even know it."

   "We hold that all individuals have the right to exercise sole dominion
   over their own lives, and have the right to live in whatever manner
   they choose, so long as they do not forcibly interfere with the equal
   rights of others," said Dasbach, wearing a "Repeal All Sex Laws"
   button on his lapel. "This August, that ideal will pass from Apartment
   12B to the world."

   With one month to go before the convention, the Libertarian platform
   is set. The party will demand an end to government subsidies for
   businesses and farms, the elimination of patrols at U.S. borders, and
   the decriminalization of crack cocaine. Party members also support the
   making of traffic signals "recommended but not mandatory," as well as
   a plan to move America's heavy industry to platforms in low Earth
   orbit by 2007.

     L.A. Efficiency Chosen jump

   The Ohio and Vermont delegations rally during the 1996 Libertarian
   Convention.

   Despite such philosophical unity, some decisions still need to be made
   before the convention. Seating arrangements are in flux as organizers
   await word of the pro-LSD lobby's attendance, as well as that of the
   Illinois delegation's wife. Pizza toppings also remain up in the air,
   with a key bloc of five Southern delegates favoring pepperoni over the
   more popular mushroom-and-green-pepper for the planned six extra-large
   pies.

   "The number of topics and speakers on our agenda was the reason we
   couldn't hold the convention at the Ventura Boulevard Denny's as
   originally planned," said Holly Pfizer, convention co-chair and one of
   the nation's leading advocates of the privatization of police. "Plus,
   they add a 15 percent gratuity for parties of eight or more, and that
   would have severely depleted our campaign war chest."

   A portion of the money saved by not holding the convention at Denny's
   will go toward the featured entertainment, a live performance by
   singer Don Henley that was recorded in 1998 and will be played on the
   apartment's stereo.

   "Whenever you have this many Libertarians in one place, there's going
   to be some disagreement," said author and gun-control opponent William
   McPeters, who will deliver a speech titled, "Why I Abandoned The GOP,
   And How America's Drug-Legalization Activists Can Profit From The
   Coming Economic Devaluation." "But if America's Libertarians join
   together as a strong, unified force, well, there's just no limit to
   what 57 people can accomplish."


   LOS ANGELES--A chilling national poll of U.S. children ages 3 through
   12 estimated that nearly 75 million youngsters suffer both physical
   and psychological abuse at the hands of their parents on a daily
   basis.
   [4]Enlarge Image Majority Of Children 

   An abused child awaits her single allotted hour of television per day.

   The poll, whose findings are part of a 700-page report released
   Tuesday by a coalition of child abuse monitoring and prevention
   organizations, indicts nearly 95 percent of American parents. It
   documents abuses ranging from less severe offenses, such as children
   being denied snacks just before dinner, to more egregious, long-term
   cases of neglect, such as never ever getting what they want, ever.

   "My parents always tell me that I have to finish all my math homework
   or I won't be allowed to watch TV," said study participant and abuse
   victim "Derek," 10, who told researchers that some of his earliest
   memories were of this kind of mistreatment. "They're so mean. I hate
   them."

   "I hate them, I hate them, I hate them," he added.

   Encouraged to speak freely and confidentially about their home lives,
   subjects shocked even seasoned child welfare advocates with tales of
   systematic deprival and gratuitous cruelty. One Illinois boy told of
   being forced to linger with his mother in fabric stores and later
   leaving a Toys "R" Us empty-handed, even though the store sold a water
   gun he really wanted. An Arkansas 9-year-old said he spent all of
   third grade carrying a boring brown backpack instead of a super-cool
   Spider-Man one like a friend, whose parents love him, had. And a
   6-year-old girl from Wisconsin was forced to sit at a dining room
   table for nearly two hours until she finished her canned green beans,
   a food widely considered by poll respondents to be disgusting and
   suitable only for adults.

   "To hear the sadness in these kids' voices when they talk about how
   they are scared--literally scared--to bring home poor report cards, is
   heartbreaking," said Dr. Deirdre Fulton, child psychologist and
   director of the Nationwide Coalition to End Child Abuse, who
   co-authored the study. "Some of the children we interviewed even
   wished they were dead so their parents would feel guilty at their
   funerals."

   "No child should ever wish to die," Fulton added.

   According to pollsters, most victims were surprisingly open, even
   eager, to discuss their abuse, although some were less forthcoming
   about traumatic experiences that involved inappropriate touching.

   "It's so embarrassing, and everybody sees it," said 7-year-old
   "Harry," whose mother hugs and kisses him goodbye in front of the
   school bus every day. "When it's happening, I close my eyes and wish
   it would stop, but it just goes on forever."

   Other victims recounted similar forms of privacy invasion, such as
   being asked if they were wearing clean underwear, and being stripped
   naked and made to bathe, even after clearly stating that they did not
   need a bath.

   Hair is another focus of unseemly pathological fixations, many
   children allege: Six out of 10 girls interviewed said that their
   mothers routinely and painfully pull, twist, and tug their hair into
   "stupid" hairstyles like pigtails, and some boys said that their
   mothers go so far as to use saliva to paste their hair into place.

   According to the report, a shocking 100 percent of children who
   claimed to have been abused said their parents repeatedly answered
   "maybe" to a request, and then withheld from them a definitive answer
   for hours or, in some cases, days.

   In addition to those who admitted to being touched inappropriately, 93
   percent of children said they have, at one point or another, been
   subject to various types of physical abuse.

   "My parents make me practice the piano for like 20 hours a day," said
   8-year-old "Lacy," adding that sometimes she will hide in her closet
   to avoid rehearsal. "They told me if I hate it so much I can quit when
   I'm in seventh grade. That's like 40 years from now."

   Some children, mostly boys, have even been pressed into brutal
   physical labor by their fathers, who demand their sons help them in
   the yard on Saturdays--one of only two days off for children who spend
   an average of 600 hours a week at school.

   "He treats me like a slave," 12-year-old "Michael" said. "It's like
   it's my fault that my dad decided to buy a house with a lawn. And then
   when I do help, he says I shouldn't have had a bad attitude about it."

   "Mom just sits there and lets the entire thing happen," "Michael"
   added.

   In some of the more disturbing cases of abuse, parents reportedly take
   a domineering interest in their children's social lives, often
   threatening severe but undefined punishment for not being home by
   dark. Some children said their parents attempt to cut them off
   completely from the outside world, making many websites and television
   channels inaccessible and never letting them hang out with their
   friends.

   The National Parents Association declined to comment on the
   overwhelming levels of abuse. When asked why they wouldn't comment,
   the NPA released a tersely worded statement: "Because we said so."


   WASHINGTON--After decades spent battling gender discrimination and
   inequality in the workplace, the feminist movement underwent a
   high-level shake-up last month, when 53-year-old management consultant
   Peter "Buck" McGowan took over as new chief of the worldwide
   initiative for women's rights.
   [4]Enlarge Image McGowan 

   Head feminist "Buck" McGowan leads a march on Washington for women's
   rights.

   McGowan, who now oversees the group's day-to-day operations, said he
   "couldn't be happier" to bring his ambition, experience, and
   no-nonsense attitude to his new role as the nation's top feminist.

   "All the feminist movement needed to do was bring on someone who had
   the balls to do something about this glass ceiling business," said
   McGowan, who quickly closed the 23.5 percent gender wage gap by
   "making a few calls to the big boys upstairs." "In the world of gender
   identity and empowered female sexuality, it's all about who you know."

   McGowan, who was selected from a pool of roughly 150 million
   candidates, made eliminating sexual harassment his first priority
   before working on securing reproductive rights for women in all 50
   states, and promoting healthy body images through an influx of strong,
   independent female characters in TV, magazines, and film.

   "It's about time," McGowan said upon returning from a golf game with
   several "network honchos" in which he brokered a deal to bring a
   variety of women's sports to prime-time television. "These ladies
   should have brought me on years ago."

   McGowan claimed that one of the main reasons the movement enjoyed so
   little success in the past was that the previous management was often
   too timid and passive and should have been much more results-focused.

   "You can't waste time pussyfooting around with protests and getting
   all emotional about a bunch of irrelevant details," McGowan said. "If
   you want to enjoy equal rights, you have to have a real man-to-man
   chat with the people in charge until you can hammer out some more
   equitable custody laws."

   "And don't get me started on how disorganized and scatterbrained their
   old fundraising methods were," McGowan added. "Let's just say the
   movement never really had a head for numbers."

   After McGowan successfully appointed three of his best men to lead
   Smith College's women's studies department and called in some favors
   to a number of powerful board chairmen to triple the number of female
   CEOs in Fortune 500 companies, analysts predicted that the feminist
   movement could achieve all of McGowan's goals by as early as 2009.

   "With a charismatic, self-assured guy like Pete pulling the strings,
   we might even see a female elected president one of these days," said
   Nathan Roth, an analyst at the Cato Institute. "Finally, the feminist
   movement has a face that commands respect."

   McGowan, however, said he didn't get into the business of women's
   rights for the praise.

   "What these women were able to accomplish with the little manpower
   they had is very impressive," McGowan said. "I just bring a certain
   something to the table--I'm not sure what--that gave us that extra
   little push into complete female independence. I guess it just comes
   naturally."

   But despite his modesty, McGowan continues to garner praise from those
   closest to the cause.

   "The whole movement just seems more legitimate with Buck in charge,"
   leading feminist Gloria Steinem said at a gala dinner Friday. "His
   drive, focus, and determination are truly remarkable. Mr. McGowan is a
   man with a plan."

   Although he has not hinted at any future projects after all forms of
   gender discrimination are a thing of the past, McGowan has vehemently
   denied rumors that he will leave the feminist movement to head up the
   struggle for gay rights.

   "The wife would kill me if I took on any more hours," McGowan said.
   "I'm sure those fellows know how that goes."


   WELLTON, AZ--Henry Leighty, a 32-year-old Arizona native and insurance
   claims adjuster, reportedly had such a huge crush on his girlfriend,
   Stacy Tompkins, 29, that he just had to marry her in a small ceremony
   Sunday which he totally dreams about every night when he goes to bed.

   Insiders close to Leighty suggested that he probably wanted to marry
   her for, like, ever.
   [4]Enlarge Image Man Likes Woman So Much He Marries Her 

   Leighty and Tompkins probably went right home to smooch and tickle
   each other after this.

   "Stacy and I are so happy," said Leighty, who mailed dozens of
   embossed invitations with little birds and flowers on them months
   before the wedding to ensure no one would miss his extra-special
   afternoon of girl-kissing. "For our honeymoon, we're going to spend
   some time [Frenching] in Saint Lucia."

   Leighty's parents, David and Kathy, attended the ceremony, as did
   Leighty's two sisters, brother, and super-special someone, Tompkins,
   whom he adores so much he had to get a priest to make them husband and
   wife forever and ever--just like he always wanted. To honor the event,
   Leighty wore a tailored Armani tuxedo, hired a local string quartet to
   perform the traditional wedding march, and actually held his
   girlfriend's hand at least twice. Gross.

   According to Leighty, the couple began planning the wedding shortly
   after their engagement last June, when the lover boy finally admitted
   what everyone already knew: that he couldn't wait to spend the rest of
   his life with a girl.

   "We had been dating for five years, and it seemed like the perfect
   time," Leighty said, while everybody puked. "She's a really great
   person."

   After professing a bunch of sappy vows he probably actually meant,
   Leighty open-mouth kissed his bride in front of friends and family and
   nobody even tried to stop him.

   Immediately following the ceremony, the wedding party moved to the
   nearby Wellton Country Club, where the new Mr. and Mrs.
   Leighty--blech--joined their guests in a celebration of the couple's
   disgusting feelings for each other with food, dancing, and making-out.
   Witnesses say Leighty also hired a wedding photographer to take
   pictures that would last for all eternity so the groom could go home
   later and practice kissing with them.

   Best man Derek Heidel said he "couldn't be happier" for the couple,
   whom he first met during his undergraduate studies at the University
   of Arizona and apparently likes so much he should probably just marry
   both of them in some stupid three-way lovefest.

   "The ceremony was beautiful," said Heidel, who is either blind or
   retarded if he didn't notice all the sick touching going on. "I felt
   so honored to be standing next to Henry at this important time in his
   life. I know they'll have a long and happy marriage together."

    Leighty, who witnesses claim they saw writing "Mr. and Mrs. Leighty"
   all over their joint checking account forms, said he "can't imagine"
   his life without Stacy. "She's got such a wonderful sense of humor,"
   he said over and over as if anyone cared.

   Leighty went on to say something like, "Ooh, this is my wife whom I
   love. I love her so much I want to marry her again because I love her
   so much, I do, I really do." He totally said that, reporters at the
   event swear to God.

   Though the couple had initially planned to get married sometime this
   summer, the date was moved up to November because of Tompkin's
   mother's failing health. Despite some initial concerns that the couple
   would not be able to reschedule the event due to their hectic schedule
   of sitting in a tree and k-i-s-s-i-n-g, the two were able to
   successfully transition through the next phases of their
   courtship--love and marriage.

   In analyzing relationships similar to the newly wedded couple's,
   experts predict that, within four to six months, Leighty and Tompkins
   are most likely going to do it, probably resulting in a baby in a baby
   carriage.

   How gay.


   NEW YORK--Director Martin Scorsese, long praised as one of the
   greatest modern American filmmakers for his works Taxi Driver, Raging
   Bull, The Last Temptation Of Christ, and Goodfellas, is following up
   his recent string of critically acclaimed triumphs with The Entitled,
   a three-hour, unabashed plea for a Best Director Oscar that opens
   nationwide Friday.

   Scorsese has lost to almost every major American filmmaker in his
   career, including actor-director Kevin Costner, who went on to create
   Waterworld and The Postman.
   [4]Enlarge Image The Entitled 

   Scorsese also designed the poster for his latest Oscar effort.

   "I've been making pictures for 40 years," said the intense,
   fast-talking Scorsese in an excerpt from The Entitled, during which
   the Rolling Stones' "Gimme Shelter" can be heard in the background.
   "For 40 years, I've been making pictures. And I've always been
   fascinated with the struggles a man must endure when people don't
   appreciate him. People say I'm the best. I didn't say it, they did. I
   just do my work. But for years they've been talking and you know it.
   You do. I deserve that award, is all I'm saying."

   The film, produced, directed, and independently released by the
   five-time Academy Award nominee, is a bold departure from his
   signature style of rapid editing, kinetic camera movement, and
   intricately choreographed tracking shots, instead employing only a
   single camera on a stationary tripod, with virtually no editing
   besides brief opening and closing credits. Captivating narratives of
   moral decay and violent machismo were notably absent, as Scorsese
   focused on a a simple message of redemption and gratification he hoped
   would be "real easy for everyone to understand."

   "For years I did the little pictures about the types of people I grew
   up with," said a passionately gesturing Scorsese in another Entitled
   scene. "Then I did the prestige-y, historical stuff like Last
   Temptation and The Age Of Innocence because I related to the
   characters, you know, outsiders in repressive environments making
   fateful choices. Then I started making the big sweeping epics, like
   Kundun and The Aviator. I've made comedies and documentaries, even
   concert films. Ever heard of The Last Waltz? No? Okay. You should."

   Continued Scorsese, "What happens? Nothing. Nothing for the versatile
   visionary who lives and breathes pictures."
     Martin Scorsese

   "People say I'm the best. I didn't say it, they did. And you know it."
   Director Martin Scorsese

   Scorsese goes on to describe in meticulous detail individual scenes
   "that alone should have won the Oscar," including Travis Bickle posing
   with his guns in front of a mirror in Taxi Driver, the close-up of
   coffee cups at the Debonair Social Club in Raging Bull, and the
   pool-hall fight scene in Mean Streets. "Remember my scene in the back
   of the cab in Taxi Driver?" Scorsese said. "That was me. I was that
   guy. That was me. Everyone remembers that."

   "You already should have done right by me with Gangs Of New York," he
   said. "I handed you guys that one on a silver platter."

   Although Scorsese does away with his traditional ensemble cast in The
   Entitled, several of his past associates make brief appearances,
   including director and screenwriter Paul Schrader, friend and
   collaborator Jay Cocks, and film editor Thelma Schoonmaker.

   "There's Paul," said Scorsese as Schrader briefly tilted his head into
   the frame and waved. "He has his own directorial career and he still
   says I should get an Oscar. He should, too. None of us are above
   wanting a little recognition. We're not stuck up."

   "You want feel-good and heartwarming, right?" Scorsese said. "I can do
   that. Or I can do casual violence with no strings attached. You know I
   can. What else you want? Kung-fu wire-work? Mentally disabled guy?
   Boring Robert Redford-style fishing movie? Just tell me what to do,
   I'll do it. Done. End of story. Give me my Oscar and I'm out of here.
   Poof."

   Newsweek movie critic David Ansen called The Entitled Scorsese's "best
   shot" at a directing Oscar since his most recent loss to Clint
   Eastwood for Million Dollar Baby. "Filming in a soundstage in Burbank
   instead of on the streets of New York was a risk, but it will pay
   off," Ansen said. "As long as Spielberg doesn't come out with
   anything, I'd say this is Scorsese's year."

   Film-industry insiders said that The Entitled was already being talked
   about as the frontrunner for the Golden Globes, the Palme d'Or,
   Cannes, and Tribeca Film Festival honors, and an Oscar for Best
   Adapted Screenplay.


   PHOENIX, AZ--In what insiders say is an attempt to revitalize his
   flagging campaign and convince voters that he is still a
   straight-talking maverick, Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) announced Sunday
   that he will subject himself to the same mental torment and physical
   abuse he endured nearly 40 years ago at the same Vietnamese camp where
   he was once held as a prisoner of war.
   [4]Enlarge Image McCain To 

   The Hanoi Hilton, which will be reopened this weekend to re-imprison
   Sen. McCain.

   "On Saturday at approximately 2:40 a.m.  I will fly over the capital
   city of Hanoi and have my plane's right wing blown off by a Russian
   missile," said McCain, adding that the force of the ejection from an
   aging A-4 Skyhawk should render him unconscious and break both of his
   arms and "preferably [his] right leg." "I will then be taken to a bug-
   and rat-infested cell where, with both nobility and grace, I will
   suffer the worst forms of human indignities."

   McCain, once considered a shoo-in for the Republican presidential
   nomination, insisted that his upcoming stay at the Hanoi torture
   facility was simply a late addition to a previously planned trip to
   Southeast Asia, and has nothing to do with his faltering campaign.

   But a source close to the campaign said the senator's decision to
   revisit his indescribable degradation at the hands of the Viet Cong
   was prompted by a desire to "get back to his roots," and "reconnect
   with the struggles that defined him as a leader."

   "The fact is, Sen. McCain feels that he's changed somehow from the
   independent, eternally haunted outsider that he once was," the source
   said. "He hopes that revisiting the extraordinary horrors he endured
   so many years ago will reinstill in him the sense of purpose and
   commitment he is so respected for. And what better way to reignite the
   political fire within than by having sharpened rods of bamboo jammed
   under his fingernails?"
     McCain

   "With both nobility and grace, I will suffer the worst forms of human
   indignities."

   According to campaign documents released to the media, the visit will
   cost more than $10 million, most of which will go toward acquiring a
   Grushin S-75 surface-to-air missile, renovating McCain's cell to its
   exact 1970s-era condition, paying medical personnel to provide
   inefficient and cruel treatment, and hiring Vietnamese citizens to act
   as the Viet Cong.

   "Just when you think McCain is down and out, he announces the most
   brilliant move we've seen in American politics in a generation," ABC
   political correspondent George Stephanopoulos said. "With [Rudolph]
   Giuliani beating him in the polls and [Mitt] Romney outpacing him in
   fundraising, McCain's only remaining advantage is that he successfully
   withstood atrocities beyond our comprehension. And to subject himself
   to those same unspeakable acts of physical violence at the age of 68
   should dispel any doubt among voters that he's too old to be in the
   White House."

   Stephanopoulos added that McCain must be careful not to return from
   Southeast Asia too soon before the primaries, or his act of courage,
   integrity, and determination may fade from the memory of American
   voters.

   "This trip is a huge political gamble," Washington Post columnist E.J.
   Dionne, Jr. wrote Tuesday. "Still, being forced to stay awake for six
   days as your captors douse you with water and feed you rotting food
   sounds a lot more convincing than John Kerry's campaign strategy of
   simply talking about his military experience."

   According to recent polls, a majority of Americans say McCain's
   announcement has made them reconsider his candidacy.

   "I've always admired McCain, but he's disappointed me in recent
   months," Cincinnati resident Ben Krepps, 33, said. "After so many
   years in the political mainstream, he's gone soft. Maybe some long,
   cruel nights are exactly what he needs to get his head back into this
   race."

   Others, however, including unaffiliated Republican consultant David
   Winston, argue that McCain's trip will only hurt his presidential
   chances.

   "In John McCain's attempt to find the old John McCain, he is actually
   just solidifying his position as the new, more pandering John McCain,"
   Winston said. "Yes, the old John McCain withstood seemingly endless
   torture, and people respected that. But a second time around? It just
   looks desperate."

   With McCain's drastic move sending shock waves through the political
   world, Sens. Hillary Clinton (D-NY) and Barack Obama (D-IL) both
   announced plans to send themselves back to their respective Ivy League
   law schools to reenroll in their most challenging courses.


   NEW YORK--Saying he could no longer stand idly by while a vital part
   of American culture is lost forever, activist and Broadway producer
   Mel Brooks has founded a private nonprofit organization dedicated to
   preserving the word "schmuck."
   [4]Enlarge Image Mel Brooks 

   An emotional Brooks stopped short of kvetching at a schmuck fundraiser
   Monday.

   "Schmuck is dying," a sober Brooks said during a 2,000-person rally
   held in his hometown of Williamsburg, Brooklyn Monday. "For many of
   us, saying 'schmuck' is a way of life. Yet when I walk down the street
   and see people behaving in foolish, pathetic, or otherwise schmucky
   ways, I hear only the words 'prick' and 'douche bag.' I just shake my
   head and think, 'I don't want to live in a world like this.'"

   The nonprofit, Schmucks For Schmuck, has compiled schmuck-related data
   from the past 80 years and conducted its own independent research on
   contemporary "schmuck" usage. According to Brooks, the statistics are
   frightening: Utterances of the word "schmuck" have declined every year
   since its peak in 1951, and in 2006, the word was spoken a mere 28
   times--17 of these times by Brooks himself. The study indicates that
   today, when faced with a situation in which one can use a targeted or
   self-deprecating insult to convey a general feeling of disgust, people
   are 50 times more likely to use the word "jerk" than "schmuck," 100
   times more likely to use "dick," and 15,000 times more likely to use
   "fucking asshole."

   Perhaps more startling, only 23 percent of men know what schmuck
   means, and only 1.2 percent of these men are under the age of 78. If
   such trends continue, Brooks estimates that by 2011, such lesser-used
   terms as "imbecile," "dummy," "schlub," and "contemptible
   ne'er-do-well" will all surpass schmuck, which is projected to
   completely disappear by the year 2020 or whenever Brooks dies.

   "We must save this word!" Brooks said to thunderous applause as those
   in attendance began chanting "Schmuck! Schmuck! Schmuck!" "How will we
   be able to charmingly describe someone who acts in an inappropriate
   manner? Especially given the tragic loss of the word 'schmegeggie' in
   2001. So I urge you: Tonight, when you get home, please, call up your
   family, your friends, your loved ones, and tell them they're a bunch
   of schmucks."
   [5]Enlarge Image Activists 

   Hundreds turned out at a Boca Raton, FL demonstration to show their
   support for the dying word.

   "I've never told anyone this before," Brooks added, choking back
   tears, "but my father was a schmuck."

   The foundation has already raised more than $20 million, thanks to
   donations from supporters such as Jackie Mason, Albert Brooks, the
   Schtupp Institute, Sen. Russ Feingold (D-WI), and the Henny Youngman
   Endowment for the Preservation of Schmekel. The money will go toward
   projects aimed at reintegrating "schmuck" into the English lexicon,
   including billboards and flyers plastered with the word "schmuck," the
   upcoming 5K Schlep for Schmuck Awareness, and a new Mel Brooks film.

   "The world cannot afford to lose this valuable and versatile word,"
   Brooks told reporters during a charity auction in Manhattan's Upper
   West Side Tuesday, where attendees bid for the chance to have a
   private lunch with Brooks and repeatedly call him a schmuck. "You can
   be a poor schmuck, a lazy schmuck, a dumb schmuck, or just a plain old
   schmuck. A group of people can be collectively referred to as
   schmucks. You can call someone a schmuck, and you can be called a
   schmuck. You can even call yourself a schmuck."

   "Plus, it's just so fun to say," Brooks added. "Schmuck."

   Many of the foundation's volunteers say they share Brooks' passion for
   the word "schmuck," as well as his outrage that it is slowly
   disappearing from everyday use. They claim that if they do not act
   now, the trend could create a snowball effect.

   "Today it's schmuck, tomorrow it might be toochis," said SFS volunteer
   Harry Steinbergmann, 82. "What's next, schlemiel? Putz? Schlimazel?"

   Steinbergmann went on to classify this scenario as farcockteh.

   Brooks will be appearing at Brooklyn's Francis Scott Key Junior High
   on Nov. 12 to give an informal lecture about his experiences using the
   word "schmuck," and build grassroots support among a key group of
   young Americans by explaining that "schmuck" is a Yiddish term for the
   foreskin on the head of a penis. In addition, he has hinted at the
   possibility of a reunion with longtime comedy partner Gene Wilder,
   during which the two will call each other schmucks.


   Dozens of eyewitness reports indicated that former vice president Al
   Gore deliberately attempted to raise the earth's temperature in order
   to boost box office receipts for An Inconvenient Truth, his
   documentary film about global warming that was released in May.
   [4]Enlarge Image Al Gore R 

   DESPERATE MEASURES
   Former vice president Al Gore takes a flamethrower to the Ross Ice
   Shelf in Antarctica to boost weekend ticket sales for An Inconvenient
   Truth.

   "We have accounts from concerned citizens that Mr. Gore purchased a
   Cadillac Escalade SUV several months before [his film] opened in
   theaters," said Kimberly Blume, spokeswoman for the California-based
   environmental group Friends Of The Earth. "Not only did Mr. Gore use
   his new gas-guzzler to make short trips to the grocery store, he also
   left the vehicle running 24 hours a day in the driveway of his
   Tennessee home with the air-conditioning on full-blast."

   In the weeks following the film's release, witnesses reported
   additional sightings of Gore engaging in activities such as
   discharging can after can of 1980s-era, CFC-laden aerosol into the
   air, and single-handedly clear-cutting over 6,000 acres of Amazon rain
   forest.

   Gore is also rumored to have set a four-acre tire fire outside Akron,
   OH, and ordered his Secret Service detail to shoot on sight anyone who
   attempts to put it out.

   "It's sad to see a man we thought was a passionate defender of the
   environment despoiling it for his own monetary gain," Blume said.

   Blume said that she and many environmentalists had momentarily
   expressed relief in late November when Gore appeared to cease his
   months-long practice of dismantling old refrigerators in order to
   release ozone-destroying freon into the atmosphere. Blume soon
   learned, however, that Gore had resumed the activity in Antarctica,
   where the earth's ozone layer is most fragile.

   Environmental groups have called for the federal government to step in
   and put a stop to Gore's actions, but officials say they do not have
   the power to stop him.

   "There is no legal recourse anyone can take against the former vice
   president," Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Stephen L.
   Johnson said. "Mr. Gore is well within the emissions standards set by
   the current administration."

   By year's end, Gore failed to slow his assault on the planet's
   delicately balanced climate systems. Satellite surveillance revealed
   what many believe to be a snowshoed Gore jumping up and down on an ice
   shelf in Greenland, chainsawing glaciers in the Alaskan wild, and
   urinating in the Gulf Stream waters off the coast of Newfoundland.


   MIDDLE EAST--With the Iraq war in its fifth year, the war in
   Afghanistan in its sixth, and  conflict between Israel and the rest of
   the region continuing unabated for more than half a century,
   intelligence sources are warning that a new wave of violence in the
   Middle East may soon blah blah blah, etc. etc., you know the rest.
   [4]Enlarge Image Middle East 

   Yet another act of violence in response to something else terrible
   that occurred in, oh, let's say Basra.

   "Tensions in the region are extremely high," said U.S. Ambassador to
   Iraq Ryan Crocker, who added the same old same old while answering
   reporters' questions. "We're disappointed by the events of the last
   few months, but we're confident that we're about to [yakety yakety
   yak]."

   The U.N. has issued a strongly worded whatever denouncing someone or
   something presumably having to do with the vicious explosive things
   that raged across this, or shattered the predawn calm of that, or
   ripped suddenly through the other, killing umpteen innocent civilians
   in a Jerusalem bus or Beirut discotheque or Fallujah mosque or
   whatever it was this time.
   [5]Enlarge Image Middle East jump 

   Either a car bomb killed people or a car hit a roadside bomb, killing
   people.

   In the aftermath of a whole series of incidents, there have also been
   troubling reports of just fill in the blanks. Middle East experts say
   the still somehow worsening situation has inflamed age-old sectarian
   tensions between the Sunnis, Shiites, Semites, Kurds, Turks, Saudis,
   Persians, Wahhabis, radicals, extremists, Baathists, mullahs, clerics,
   et al, which is likely to lead to more gurgle-gurgle over the coming
   weeks and months.

   A certain number of U.S. troops were also killed somewhere in some
   tragic fashion, while a much greater number were wounded. Meanwhile,
   impoverished or oppressed supporters of whichever faction carried out
   the attack or ambush probably celebrated, angering an angry U.S.
   public that is already angry. Locals are calling for an investigation
   into excessive force or outright corruption by military or political
   officials on one of the 15 sides of the various conflicts, although
   the implicated party has categorically denied wrongdoing, just like
   they always do, without fail, every time this happens, which is daily,
   it seems.

   And in Afghanistan, the Taliban.

   In Israel, Palestinians and Israelis escalated tensions and so on and
   so on ad infinitum, ad eternum, and some say, ad absurdum, and
   although Hamas released a statement condemning Israeli forces for the
   resulting civilian deaths, Israeli officials say the teens were armed
   with rocket launchers, though it doesn't really matter.

   Also, Ahmadinejad, Iran's nuclear program, bin Laden at large, Moqtada
   al-Sadr, Moqtada al-Sadr's militia, Fallujah, renegade mullahs,
   embedded and/or beheaded journalists, oil revenues, stockpiles of
   former Soviet armaments, freedom, racism, Halliburton, women's role in
   Islamic society, the Quran, withdrawing troops, economic disparities,
   Sikhs, Pakistanis, oil, rebuilding, stories of hope, the Saudi royal
   family, the Holy Land, insurgents, and the tragedy of Sept. 11th.

   In an attempt to increase public support of whatever the fuck it is he
   thinks he's doing, President Bush trotted out the same old whoop-de-do
   you've heard over and over at a solemn-yet-resolute speech attended by
   soldiers, or religious leaders, or firemen, or some mix of
   ethnic-looking people from one of those countries.

   "We have to give this plan time to wop bop a loo bop, a wop bam boom,
   ah ah ting tang walla walla bing bang," President Bush may as well
   have said. "May God [help/bless/save] the United States of America."


   WASHINGTON, DC--Two weeks after the hourly federal minimum wage was
   raised from $5.15 to $5.85, families across the country were still
   celebrating the historic increase by running their electric fans,
   buying coveted half-gallons of milk, and, like Charice Williams of
   Shreveport, LA, purchasing name-brand ketchup to share with loved
   ones.
   [4]Enlarge Image Minimum Wage 

   "I can't remember the last time I could afford Hunt's," said the
   41-year-old mother of six, who for more than a decade has purchased
   ValuTime ketchup to garnish everything from Hamburger Helper to Tuna
   Helper. "Another couple dozen wage increases like this, and we'll be
   practically swimming in Heinz. Or at least my grandchildren will."

   Whether buying national-brand condiments, allowing themselves two
   additional squares of toilet paper, or paying for a few more minutes
   of drying time at the laundromat, the estimated 13 million Americans
   who subsist on minimum wages are getting a taste of the good life.
   Jaime Santiago of Las Cruces, NM was working a double shift at a
   24-hour car wash Tuesday night, but still managed to celebrate by
   calling home collect during his break--and, for the first time in
   years, his wife was able to accept the charges.
   [5]Enlarge Image Worker 

   If this Sarasota, FL woman works 60 hours a week, she could be looking
   at a five-digit gross income by year's end.

   "I told her I had a surprise for the family when I got home, and I
   wasn't kidding: chewable vitamins for the kids," said Santiago, 29.
   "On Sunday, I'm going to surprise them again with a nice bus ride out
   to Wal-Mart to walk around a little. Then I'm going to pull back for a
   while. Indulgences like these are all the more special when they're
   just occasional."

   Many minimum-wage earners, like 38-year-old Greg Hubbard, said the
   increase--the first of its kind since 1997--provides a sense of
   security at a time when the price of gas, housing, consumer goods,
   food, utilities, and health insurance premiums are at their highest
   levels in decades.
     Nancy Pelosi

   'America, add one more quarter-scoop of sugar to your Kool-Aid and
   treat yourself to a new pair of socks--the minimum-wage hike has
   finally arrived.'

   House Speaker Nancy Pelosi

   "To think that only 10 years ago my salary was jacked up to $5.15 an
   hour, and now, in 2007, I'm making almost $6 an hour," said Hubbard,
   who runs the sluicer at the Tyson Foods chicken processing plant in
   Corydon, IN. "Only in America."

   In Utica, NY, hotel maid Ernestine Caldwell has constantly worried
   about her husband's medical expenses since he was diagnosed with
   Alzheimer's disease earlier this year and forced to quit his job. But
   now that she'll be earning nearly $12,000 a year, Caldwell, 62, said
   she'll be able to pay off 1/64th of his medical expenses and finally
   start planning for her retirement by investing in higher-yield
   scratch-ticket games offered by the New York Lottery.

   "For years, I've had to play 'Loose Change' or 'Straight 8's' while
   the $20 'Win for Life Spectacular' game has been out of reach,"
   Caldwell said. "With this added income, though, I'll really be able to
   take advantage of all 15 ways to win. My husband deserves the best
   possible care."

   Congressional Democrats who pushed for the increase said the
   additional $28 a week will come as a "godsend" to those living below
   the poverty line and provide new lines of tax revenue that could
   perhaps one day help pay off the resurgent federal deficit.

   "Today, the nation's working poor are 70 cents closer to the American
   dream," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said at a Capitol press conference.
   "And don't forget the economic stimulus this wage increase will
   provide-- already we hear that discount stores nationwide are selling
   out their stocks of flip-flops and the stiffer kind of paper plates."

   Yet Pelosi urged minimum-wage earners to be cautious in spending their
   windfall, as a raise of this magnitude only comes "once in a
   lifetime."


   MILWAUKEE--In what Major League Baseball officials are calling a "long
   overdue correction of a gross oversight," Commissioner Bud Selig
   announced Tuesday the discovery that Hall of Famer Hank Aaron had in
   fact accumulated 50 previously unaccounted-for home runs during his
   illustrious 22-year baseball career, bringing his once record total of
   755 to an even higher 805 and putting the all-time home-run record
   perhaps forever out of reach.
   [4]Enlarge Image MLB Finds Lost 

   Hank Aaron hits one of the 12 home runs he tallied during the 1973-1/2
   season.

   "Hank Aaron is a hero, an excellent man, and a great ambassador for
   the game of baseball," Selig said during a press conference to
   announce the findings. "We're proud to have finally set things right,
   hopefully once and for all. And I have to tell you, some of the home
   runs that we discovered were just monster shots. One was hit off of
   [Pittsburgh Pirates pitcher] Harvey Haddix that went 576 feet, and
   Hank wasn't even that big of a guy. Just naturally strong and gifted,
   I guess."

   Haddix was unavailable for comment, as he passed away in 1994.

   According to Selig, a committee of sports journalists and baseball
   historians was set up during the off-season to investigate, with
   Selig's oversight, whether there was any substance to a rumor that
   began circulating last summer concerning Aaron having hit more
   homeruns than those credited to him in the record books. Though Selig
   said he couldn't recall the date the committee was established, he
   believes it was in or around the time he approved the San Francisco
   Giants' highly publicized signing of Barry Zito.

   The committee's 30-page report points out several key factors that
   combined to increase Aaron's home run total. For example, in 1958,
   home runs hit during both the first week of spring training and those
   hit in pre-game batting practice during away games in the third week
   of August were added to a player's career numbers. In addition, home
   runs hit during the 1971 All-Star Game should have been tallied.

   Aaron, coincidentally, did hit a home run in that game.

   "We are here today to the right the wrongs," Selig said. "This is
   America's national pastime, and its players, fans, and all citizens
   deserve to have a record book in which they can take great pride. So
   if we didn't count Hank Aaron's five-homer outing during 1964's famous
   'Empty Stadium' game, I wouldn't be able to live with myself."

   Furthermore, the report continued, a third of the home runs hit by
   players who participated in the television series Home Run Derby, a
   show on which Aaron appeared several times, should have been counted.
   In addition, during the second half of the 1962 season, balls that
   bounced over the outfield fence should have been counted as home runs,
   and foul balls that were hit behind the batter but cleared the netting
   intended to protect fans seated behind home plate were also home runs.
   That being the case, league scorekeepers now say Aaron had his best
   year in 1962, hitting 65 home runs--20 more than originally thought.

   Though there has been some negative reaction towards the announcement
   of Aaron's new record, mostly from fans in northern California, the
   news has been received very well nationwide.

   "This is the best thing that has happened to baseball in years," said
   New York resident Tom Plaitano, 63. "I remember watching Hank Aaron as
   a kid, and even though I don't recall a time when all home runs hit
   off Sandy Koufax counted for two, I don't really care. This decision
   just makes sense to me."

   "The number 805 will go down as the most prestigious number in
   sports," said Selig, adding that there is a strong possibility still
   more of Aaron's home runs could come to the surface during this
   season, and maybe even the next several seasons to come. "It's not out
   of the question that Hank could have, say, 900 home runs by the time
   our investigation is all said and done."

   "Either way, the all-time home-run record couldn't be held by a more
   dignified and honorable man," Selig added.

   The committee's report has caused quite a shakeup to the list of
   baseball's all-time home-run leaders. Aaron, while keeping his record,
   is not even the biggest benefactor of the findings; as of now Aaron is
   first with 805, Willie Mays has jumped to second with 800, Frank
   Robinson is third with 798, Harmon Killebrew is fourth with 797, and
   Reggie Jackson, Mickey Mantle, Ernie Banks, Ted Williams, and Willie
   McCovey are tied for fifth at 796.

   According to Selig, early results of another investigation may net
   Babe Ruth as many as 74 additional home runs, Mike Schmidt an
   estimated 124, and Ken Griffey Jr. a possible 200, while players such
   as Mark McGwire, Sammy Sosa, Rafael Palmeiro, and Barry Bonds will
   probably be knocked even further down the list.


   SIOUX FALLS, SD--Managers of an area International House of Pancakes
   discovered 95 comment cards nailed to its front door Sunday, which
   were later identified as the work of local resident Ronald Lyman, a
   53-year-old contractor and onetime regular customer who is calling for
   wide-scale reform of the venerable chain.
   [4]Enlarge Image Modern Day Martin Luther 

   The self-styled pancake reformer decries IHOP indulgences such as
   whipped toppings.

   "IHOP has grown weak on powdered sugar and fruity garnishes, forsaking
   the righteousness of its original rib-sticking mission," said Lyman,
   who nailed his 95 comments to the door shortly before the morning
   brunch rush, when they would receive maximum exposure. "This house is
   no longer a house of pancakes--it is a house of lies."

   Lyman's 95 cards assail IHOP for what he perceives to be an "unholy
   alliance" of the sweet and the savory, a dangerously narrowing
   blueberry-to-batter ratio, hard-to-open butter packets, and an
   increasingly tall short stack. Fifteen cards alone attack the
   excessive breadth of syrup selection.

   "IHOP is about pancakes, not syrups," card 41 reads. "No pancake can
   exist drowned in a pool of lingonberry. No man who comes hungry can
   leave happy on artificial orange-flavored goo."

   Lyman said that his pancake fundamentalism is based on "the trinity of
   griddle-fried batter, butter, and maple syrup, as directed by our
   breakfast elders more than two score years ago." His beliefs were
   forged by years of increasing dissatisfaction with the
   "internationalist" influence within IHOP, which he said stresses
   flavor over substance.
     Modern Day IHOP Logo

   "The course of my life changed last week when a waitress dropped a
   tray and I was struck with hot coffee," Lyman said. "As I wiped my
   eyes and opened them, suddenly I became aware of the full extent of
   the corruption. Sweet crepes mingling with egg runoff. The sickening
   decadence of Belgian waffles. A waitstaff more concerned with lining
   their pockets with tips than with dedicating their lives to service. I
   stormed from the wicked place without settling my bill, finally
   realizing what I must do: devote my life to bringing down the House of
   Pancakes. To bring it down, then build it anew in righteousness and
   customer satisfaction."

   IHOP manager Dennis Ryskowski said that he has tried to read some of
   Lyman's comments during his breaks, but has so far only made it to
   card 26, "On the Blankets of Pigs."

   "We welcome all customer suggestions and feedback," Ryskowski said.
   "That's why we provide the comment cards. I do, however, wish Mr.
   Lyman had simply placed his in the box by the host station instead."

   Several customers who had come to the restaurant after bars closed
   Sunday night agreed with Lyman's stand, saying they, too, often feel
   disconnected from the IHOP experience.

   "I really like what he has to say about returning to the basics,"
   customer Kelly Grabler said. "Sometimes you just want a nice fat stack
   of pancakes, but you end up overwhelmed by the choices. Lots of the
   stuff isn't even breakfast. An IHOP meal should be a straightforward
   relationship between an individual and some pancakes."

   Card 63 perhaps most eloquently summarizes Lyman's condemnatory
   stance.

   "These steep and serene blue roofs, which arc to the heavens, in truth
   house corrupt souls who once sought succor in a simple pancake, but
   have now succumbed to the temptation of caramel cheesecakes and Caesar
   salads," Lyman wrote. "Only by returning to its hearty breakfast roots
   can IHOP save itself and its customers."

   Lyman suggested that, should his recommended changes not be
   instituted, he will have no choice but to break with the restaurant
   and start his own International House of Pancakes, Reformed (IHOPR)
   off I-229 by the airport.


   NEW YORK--A feature on the New York Times' website that lists the
   stories most e-mailed by readers is destroying morale and escalating
   tensions among the once-dignified and professional Times staff,
   sources within the newspaper of record said Tuesday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Most Emailed 

   The New York Times office building, which used to house some of the
   most respected journalists in America.

   This week's most frequently e-mailed story, titled "In Manhattan, Even
   Felines Have Therapists," which detailed the growing phenomenon of
   clinical depression among indoor urban cats, provoked a fresh round of
   envy and dismay among reporters still stinging from last week's top
   article, "Do You Really Have Time For Your Time-Share?".

   "Your reputation is everything here at the Times, and if you want get
   known, you've got to deliver what readers want: differences between
   men and women, and photos of cats," national political reporter Adam
   Nagourney said. "I suppose I could be most e-mailed, too, if I sat in
   front of my computer all day making up cutesy names for government
   officials, like some redheaded Wednesday and Saturday columnists I
   know."

   Along with most of his Times colleagues, Nagourney is convinced that
   online readers instinctively overlook harder news for the eye-catching
   Most E-Mailed box, making the pressure to craft articles with those
   magical "click and send" qualities that much more intense.

   Executive editor Bill Keller said he believes that the Most E-Mailed
   list is causing "troubling" changes in the Times' editorial focus, as
   reporters increasingly neglect less attractive assignments.

   "I've always encouraged our journalists to follow their instincts,"
   Keller said. "But now I'm considering a more hands-on approach,
   especially since I've received no fewer than four 800-word pieces on
   'man dates' in the past week alone."

   According to Times insiders, nearly two dozen staffers, including four
   Pulitzer Prize winners and Baghdad correspondent John Burns, have
   requested transfers to the Times' Home & Garden and Travel desks.

   Nagourney, currently stuck covering Barack Obama's presidential
   campaign in Minnesota, said he's been trying to make his stories more
   e-mail-friendly. But so far, success has eluded him.

   "I thought my Elizabeth Edwards breast cancer article the other week
   had a great chance, as it was at the intersection of politics, health,
   death, and family--and had the word 'breast' in the headline--but it
   didn't even make the top 10," Nagourney said. "Whatever."
     Most E Mailed Krugman

   "I'll write anything--do anything--to get on that list each week. I
   don't care what it takes."
   Times columnist Paul Krugman

   White House correspondent David Sanger recalled his anger last month
   after seeing New York Times publisher Arthur Sulzberger, Jr.
   compliment a first-year reporter who had gotten two stories on the
   Most E-Mailed list despite only having worked at the paper part-time
   for three months.

   "I know I write some boring stuff, but I'm forced to: It's my job,"
   Sanger said. "I've been here for almost 25 years, and Sulzberger
   hasn't said that many words to me the whole time."

   Restaurant critic and Most E-Mailed list darling Frank Bruni dismissed
   the inter-office grousing, saying, "Some people have it, some people
   never will." Bruni's work topped the Most E-Mailed list eight times in
   the past year.

   Other mainstays of the Most E-mailed List, such as columnist Frank
   Rich, experience the stress of having to maintain their success every
   week. While there are definite perks, such as sharing a lunch table
   with other widely e-mailed columnists, like Paul Krugman and Thomas
   Friedman, Rich said that the "once laid-back and carefree" working
   environment of the Times' midtown Manhattan offices has been replaced
   with suspicion and backbiting.

   "Yesterday I was working in my cubicle, and I could hear some
   reporters at the water cooler a few feet away talking in stage
   whispers about how I was 'obviously' getting my friends to e-mail my
   columns around to artificially inflate their ranking, and it was very
   upsetting," Rich said. "Sure, some of my friends may have e-mailed
   them, but that's because they honestly liked them and people have the
   right to do that."

   Columnist Nicholas Kristof, a Pulitzer Prize-winning former editor who
   has covered Asia and Africa for the Times, claimed not to be aware
   that his work frequently appears on the Most E-Mailed list, saying he
   "never so much as glances" at it.

   "Who cares--lists are stupid and arbitrary," Kristof said. "Only
   shallow morons pay attention to them. As if an article is inherently
   better just because more people happen to read it. This isn't a
   popularity contest."

   Kristof returned Thursday from the Sudan after a six-week-long
   investigation of the plight of displaced house cats in the
   genocide-ridden Darfur region. His findings will be published in next
   Sunday's New York Times Magazine.


   MIAMI--South Florida residents were overcome with fear, confusion, and
   an unnerving sense of dread Tuesday when they learned that an
   unidentified hurricane is heading for their area--its origin
   uncertain, its intentions unclear, and perhaps most frightening, its
   name unknown.
   [4]Enlarge Image Nameless Hurricane 

   The vacant eye of the unnamed storm fixes its baleful stare on the
   Florida peninsula.

   "Who is this hurricane?" said Miami resident Beverly Motolla, just one
   of hundreds of thousands of citizens struggling to put a human face on
   this impending tragedy. "Why is it here? What does it want from us?"

   Such questions remain agonizingly unanswered, as the anonymous storm
   front shows no signs of slowing down or divulging its background.
   Lacking any reliable information on the character traits of the
   popularly dubbed "Hurricane That Shall Not Be Named," thousands have
   fled the area, hoping to escape its destructive winds, driving rain,
   and chilling impersonality.

   "If this hurricane were a Wilma or a Frank, or even a Rebekah, I'd at
   least know what to expect--a storm system with a low pressure center,
   sustained winds above 119 miles per hour, high gusts, and severe
   inland flooding," said Stewart Tomlinson, a Miami-area police officer
   who plans to drive his family north to Georgia on Wednesday. "But I
   don't even know if this hurricane is a boy or a girl. And frankly,
   that scares me."

   "I don't want this...thing...coming anywhere near me or my family,"
   Tomlinson added.
   [5]Enlarge Image Nameless Hurricane Jump 

   Whatever the coming storm's true name, Floridians, like these
   evacuating Pompano Beach residents, are praying it will not exceed in
   severity the infamous Hurricane !!! of 1983.

   Those who have decided to stay home and brave the imminent storm have
   reported incidents of raindrops rapping on their windowpanes with a
   sinister, relentless urgency; drops in barometric pressure so sudden
   they could freeze a man's soul; and, in the words of one Coral Springs
   body shop owner, "the kind of heartless devastation that could only be
   wreaked by an unfeeling tropical cyclone that doesn't even have the
   decency to introduce itself."

   "I heard that the hurricane killed 620 Guatemalans last week in cold
   blood," Mark Barclay of Sweetwater said. "And that it didn't even
   care."

   Though the hurricane is predicted to cause widespread destruction,
   many say it brings something even more dangerous than a 10-foot storm
   tide and rapidly contracting eyewall: the element of the unknown.

   "You can tell a lot about a hurricane by its name--that's why they
   have names," Surfside resident Brenda Harrison said. "Mitch, strong
   and unpredictable. Katrina, devious and vengeful. Bob, good guy, just
   passing through. But this hurricane could be anything. It could be a
   gentle mist, or it could be the worst natural disaster in the history
   of mankind. It could strike anytime, and it could be anywhere...even
   right behind you. Also, what if it doesn't even have an eye?"
     Nameless Hurricane Pullquot

   "For the love of Jesus, at least just give us a first initial."

   Kimberly Mellor,
   Opa-locka, FL

   "When the big hurricane struck Florida in 1998, I was scared until I
   found out its name was Earl," Panama City, FL citizen Sam Hewer said.
   "I went to high school with a guy named Earl. He was a little wild,
   but ultimately harmless. In fact, we used to make fun of him. So when
   the storm hit and destroyed my house, it didn't seem so bad. It was
   like, 'Oh, there goes Earl again.'"

   As the storm approaches the coast, citizens have been speculating as
   to its identity. Many claim that the hurricane's erratic changes in
   course and spiral rainbands make it seem like a Dave. Still others
   suspect that it might be Hurricane Andrew in disguise, returning to
   finish what it started in 1992.

   Also on Tuesday, the National Weather Service issued a statement in
   which it rejected calls to name the hurricane, describing such an
   action as "impossible."

   "We've monitored, studied, and examined this hurricane in the two
   weeks since it appeared seemingly out of nowhere on our radar, and it
   simply has no name," NWS acting director Mary Glackin said. "If it had
   one, we'd be using it. It's not like we can just make up a name."

   When asked if he could identify the storm, veteran WTVJ meteorologist
   Cal Valencia threw back his head and laughed scornfully.

   "Fools! Be glad you don't know this hurricane's true name!" Valencia
   said. "It may be the sole mercy we are shown during this coming
   ordeal. Savor it! For in a day's time, you will be pining for your
   lost ignorance as a drowning man for oxygen."

   One Miami-Dade citizen, however, has decided to take matters into his
   own hands.

   "For my wife and children's sake, I've decided to tell them it's named
   Bradley," said Jackson Graham, a local carpenter who claims he cannot
   bear to tell his family the horrible truth. "Hurricane Bradley. God, I
   hope that doesn't make it angrier."


   HOUSTON--NASA administrator Michael Griffin announced during a press
   conference Tuesday that the space agency is launching an ambitious
   mission to make Houston's Johnson Space Center wireless-Internet
   capable within one decade.
   [4]Enlarge Image Mission Control Center 

   Frustrated Mission Control Center staff experience yet another dial-up
   disconnection while browsing the web Tuesday.

   "We are entering a new era for NASA," Griffin said during a slide show
   for reporters showing conceptual illustrations of a wireless modem
   that would be used in all of the agency's offices and laboratories
   that use personal computers. "We are not content to rest on our
   laurels. It may seem like an impossible task, but if we commit all of
   our focus, technology, and resources, we can get Wi-Fi into NASA's
   offices and research labs within our generation."

   Griffin was confident that NASA's estimated $655 million plan to
   install a wireless broadband router by 2017 could reap huge benefits
   for the entire space agency.

   "In a few short years, all NASA employees will be able to check their
   e-mail throughout the complex, even in the cafeteria," Griffin said.

   According to agency officials, accessing the Internet has been an
   ongoing struggle for NASA. Still relying on a single dial-up modem,
   employees nevertheless continue to get disconnected from the Internet
   whenever the Johnson Space Center receives an incoming call or someone
   picks up the phone to dial out. In 2005, NASA attempted to upgrade
   from dial-up to DSL, but the program was aborted when engineers were
   unable to get the Ethernet hub to function.

   While the building that houses the public affairs office can currently
   pick up a weak Wi-Fi signal from a Starbucks across the street, the
   Johnson Space Center as a whole is far from being the "giant Wi-Fi
   hotspot" Griffin envisions.

   "If NASA is to fulfill its vision of a working environment of today,
   we will need to develop existing technologies to ensure Internet
   connectivity can be sustained without employees becoming entangled in
   cords," Griffin said.
   [5]Enlarge Image Commanders 

   Commanders Scott Dreisen and Alan Wittmer explore a Houston-area Best
   Buy for possible signs of wireless routers in NASA's heroic first
   steps into the Wi-Fi Age.

   If federal funding is approved, NASA will begin its search for
   wireless capability by sending a series of robotic probes into the
   depths of the Johnson Space Center, exploring the surfaces of desks
   and tables to search for the most viable modem base. Once the probes
   have photographed the area, the information they have gathered will be
   transmitted back to Houston's Mission Control Center for analysis.

   Griffin said that the agency has also recruited seven information
   technology specialists from some of the nation's top white-collar
   regional workplaces. The seven mission specialists in the newly dubbed
   "Internet Explorer" program are being rigorously trained to install
   the theoretical wireless devices in an Earth-gravity environment in
   which they could encounter potentially arduous conditions such as poor
   air ventilation and lifeless workscapes.

   Since spring, NASA has also conducted some preliminary, small-scale
   reconnaissance missions to a Houston-area Best Buy, where crews
   conducted research and compared prices. Scientists within the agency
   say early data from the trips is promising, showing a generous return
   policy and an extended warranty plan. In addition, researchers have
   investigated the digital cable setup at veteran space shuttle
   astronaut Ken Bowersox's house.

   NASA has suffered from a public credibility crisis in recent years due
   to perceived incompetence, a failed mission to Mars, the damaged and
   dormant Hubble telescope, and its inability to procure a long enough
   USB cable to reach all the way over to engineer William Chen's
   cubicle. But NASA officials argue that a secure high-speed line could
   prevent disasters such as a 2005 incident in which an employee
   attempting to download the movie trailer for Cheaper by the Dozen 2
   crashed the Mission Control Center mainframe computer for two weeks.

   Griffin may have an uphill battle convincing Congress to fund the
   project. As the NASA administrator himself admitted at the press
   conference, even if a workable wireless router is successfully
   purchased, engineers will need at least an additional two years to
   examine the owner's manual before attempting to install the
   complicated equipment.

   Once the wireless local area network is completed, Griffin said that
   NASA will embark on its next great project: constructing a laptop
   capable of taking advantage of Wi-Fi's high-speed access by 2037.


   CHARLOTTE, NC--Only days after its long-anticipated, much-criticized
   Car of Tomorrow debuted to overwhelmingly negative reviews at the
   Bristol Motor Speedway, NASCAR responded to the wishes of competitors
   and fans alike by introducing the stylishly retro, technologically
   retrograde NEXTEL Cup Car of Yesterday.
   [4]Enlarge Image NASCAR Introduces 

   "This is exactly what everyone from race teams to race fans wanted all
   along--a real American racecar," said Robby Gordon, standing in front
   of the Jim Beam '77 Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme he will drive for the
   rest of the season. "To hell with things like spoilers, adjustable
   suspensions, disc brakes, shoulder belts, all that junk. People want
   to see us racing the cars they drive every day, and anyone who's seen
   the parking lot at a NASCAR race will tell you that's what the Car of
   Yesterday gives them."

   Based on tried-and-true NASCAR designs from what many consider the
   golden age of stock-car racing, the Car Of Yesterday is based on the
   racing team's choice of four-door body styles: either the '77 Cutlass
   Supreme, the '79 Chevrolet Caprice Classic, the '78 Dodge Diplomat,
   the '77 Ford Granada, the '77 Mercury Gran Marquis, or for series
   newcomers Toyota, the 1989 Corolla. All cars, regardless of body
   style, must have fully reclining seats, column shifters, vinyl tops,
   ashtrays, and automatically retracting seatbelts. Adding spoilers and
   air dams for purposes other than providing advertising space is
   forbidden, although teams will be allowed to bolt wooden 2-by-8 planks
   to their front and rear bumpers for the contact-heavy short-track
   races. Mechanically, all cars will be basically identical, featuring
   360-cubic-inch V-8 engines with the air filters reversed, "glass-pack"
   mufflers, and factory power steering.

   "Our primary concern with the Car of Yesterday was safety," said
   NASCAR competition director Robin Pemberton. "The fans hate that shit.
   We had to keep that in mind when we went back to the drawing board, so
   we took away anything that increased grip, improved handling, or
   prevented a stock car from experiencing a sudden and total loss of
   control. NASCAR isn't about the cars, it's about the drivers. And the
   Car of Yesterday keeps the driver involved with the vehicle, whether
   he's just driving it or, ideally, crashing it."

   The Car of Yesterday underwent intensive single-car and multi-car
   tests earlier this week at Daytona, Texas Motor Speedway, and
   Martinsville, with testing director Brett Bodine and his crew wrecking
   34 cars in routine driving. An enthusiastic Bodine reported the new
   design passed with flying colors.

   "I could barely keep the thing out of the wall. It swapped ends, got
   way loose, and nearly spun out with little to no warning. Sometimes it
   dove down towards the infield for no reason I ever did figure out, and
   once coming off the banking at Daytona it rebounded off the suspension
   stops hard enough to bounce the whole front end in the air," said
   Bodine, who was pronounced healthy and released from Daytona Beach
   Memorial Hospital early Wednesday afternoon. "It may be the best
   all-around NASCAR stocker I've ever driven. I wish they had these cars
   when I was still racing, but unfortunately, they'd advanced past that
   point by then."

   Drivers were unanimously positive when informed of the Car of
   Yesterday and praised NASCAR's courage in pursuing a deign philosophy
   that satisfied fans and racers alike.

   "Like I said before, that Car of Tomorrow was crap," said Kyle Busch,
   who won the March 25 race in which the controversial design debuted.
   "It kind of stuck to the track in a boring way, and just sort of went
   where you pointed it. But this car reminds me of the ones I grew up
   watching--not just on the track, but on the two-lane highway outside
   of town. Hell, for all I know, this one was there."

   NASCAR president Mike Helton is currently working closely with all
   competing teams, current Nextel Cup drivers, and a network of salvage
   yards and used-car dealers to make sure every team has enough cars and
   spares for the Car of Yesterday's debut race, currently scheduled for
   April 29 at Talladega Superspeedway, the largest tri-oval on the
   Nextel Cup circuit and one of NASCAR's fastest and most challenging
   tracks.

   "We want to make sure fans have a strong first impression of the Car
   of Yesterday," said Helton. "And believe me, seeing a few dozen of
   these all-American road-hugging beauties roaring flat-out into
   Talladega's Turn One is something they'll be talking about for years."


   NEW ORLEANS--Mere moments after hoisting the crystal national
   championship trophy, Tigers coach Les Miles announced that LSU had
   made the decision to "go out on top" and retire after almost 150 years
   as a public university.

   "Believe me, beating the Ohio State Buckeyes was tough, but coming to
   this decision was much tougher," said Miles, who said he reached the
   decision after a Christmas day meeting with LSU chancellor John
   O'Keefe, university president John Lombardi, and Tigers quarterback
   Matt Flynn. "But I really feel that after winning our second national
   chamionship in five years, Louisiana State University and Agricultural
   and Mechanical College has nothing left to prove--to others or to
   ourselves."

   "There's not a doubt in my mind that this university will be as
   successful at whatever it chooses to do in its private life as it was
   playing football," Miles added. "The lessons LSU learned in becoming
   national champions will go with us for the rest of our lives, no
   matter where life takes us."

   Though established in 1859, Louisiana State University did not play
   football for more than 30 years, finally giving the game a try in
   1893. Even then, success was long in coming, and the school did not
   win a national championship until 1958.

   "We don't have the advantages of a lot of other institutions of higher
   learning, but I'd put our love for football up there with any of
   them," Chancellor O'Keefe said Tuesday. "But I believe every college,
   university, what have you, has to be honest with itself and realize
   there's a time to bow out gracefully. And LSU's time is now."

   "I'm overjoyed about the championship, and I've enjoyed being a part
   of what makes this university so great," said Flynn, who was 19 of 26
   for 174 yards and four touchdowns in what turned out to be his
   school's final public appearance. "That's what makes this decision so
   bittersweet, for me and for all the other players, coaches, students,
   professors, advisers, administrators, everybody. But when you're done,
   you're done."

   Flynn, like most of LSU's 34.000 students, intends to spend a week or
   so enjoying the victory and celebrating the championship before moving
   out of his soon-to-be-demolished dormitory and pursuing work in the
   private sector.

   "There were so many good times and so much great football with so many
   wonderful people that I have no regrets," said LSU architecture
   professor Marsha Cuddeback. "Sure, I'll miss teaching here. But
   there's not a doubt in my mind this is the right thing to do."

   "You get to a point where there's just nothing else to accomplish,"
   President Lombardi told reporters Tuesday, in between completing the
   paperwork that would cancel the spring semester and arranging for the
   sale of LSU's 2,100-acre campus. "From here on out, we at the
   university would just be padding our career stats. That's not how we
   want to be remembered."

   "When people think of LSU, we want them to think of a class act,"
   Lombardi said. "We want them to say, 'There's a school that really
   knew when it was time to walk away.'"


   MINNEAPOLIS--The tragic Minneapolis bridge collapse that left 13 dead
   this August brought national attention to the country's crumbling
   infrastructure, forcing many to question whether the nation's rapidly
   deteriorating roads, contaminated drinking water and groundwater, and
   run-down schools could perhaps be a metaphor for something.
   [4]Enlarge Image Nation Crumbling 

   The scale of destruction and loss of human life must surely mean
   something.

   In late 2007, the American Society of Civil Engineers conducted a full
   investigation into the nation's dams, highways, and public utilities,
   and gave the United States an overall grade of "D" for its upkeep.
   Unfortunately, however, the agency was unable to determine what, if
   anything, the country's complete and utter failure in every category
   it measures might mean in a larger sense.

   "Everywhere you turn you see improperly maintained railways,
   structurally deficient bridges--not to mention billions of gallons of
   untreated sewage flowing directly into our groundwater," said Adam
   Perry, a representative for the ASCE. "Is there an underlying message
   here? There are so many layers, and each one is so subtle and nuanced,
   that I'm hesitant to make any kind of blanket statement about what
   this means 'for America.'"

   "I think our overstretched and increasingly obsolete infrastructure
   might symbolize something important," Perry added. "But what?"

   With more than 350,000 contaminated industrial sites requiring cleanup
   and more than 50 percent of the nation's inland commercial waterways
   unusable, the ASCE and Congress launched a joint initiative last March
   to determine if the dilapidated infrastructure is a metaphor for some
   bigger, unknown issue or, alternatively, an allegory of something
   possibly having to do with the future or the nature of Fate.

   In early November, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi reported that, while the
   $2.3 billion project had yet to yield any definitive answers as to
   what thousands of unsafe dams might represent, it had provided some
   "very thought-provoking" ideas.

   "We're pretty sure the clogged highways are a metaphor for the
   ceaseless advancement of Time," said Pelosi. "And if we take our
   outdated and poorly maintained electrical grids to be a physical
   manifestation of lightning--the classic portent--then we have every
   reason to believe something big is about to happen."

   While it is unclear what purpose the crumbling infrastructure metaphor
   serves when taken in context of the nation's history, neither the ASCE
   nor Congress have ruled out the possibility that the United States is
   just one big coming-of-age story.


   CHICAGO--Citing the sobering statistic that over 10,000 of the 12,800
   slayings in the United States in 2006 were reported by joggers, a
   national coalition of fitness enthusiasts called upon government
   officials Tuesday to impose measures that would reduce the likelihood
   of runners discovering lifeless bodies.
   [4]Enlarge Image Nation Joggers 

   Joggers at a press conference in Chicago.

   "We joggers have lives outside of finding violent-crime victims," said
   jogger Elizabeth Riccardi, who recently stumbled upon the remains of a
   double-pickax homicide  while jogging around the Bartlett Reservoir
   near Scottsdale. "We're willing to cooperate with law enforcement, but
   we don't all have the time to be consoled with a blanket and a cup of
   coffee while some cop asks us the same tedious questions."

   Riccardi said that some joggers have become so fed up with the
   dead-body encounters that they've been forced to run only on busy
   sidewalks, to the chagrin of pedestrians.

   "I don't run through Lincoln Park after 6 p.m. anymore, I steer clear
   of that alleyway by the liquor store, and I definitely do not jog by
   the river at all," Chicago resident Chaz Montgomery said. "But,
   without fail, every few months I make another gruesome,
   routine-disrupting discovery."

   "I just want a good cardiovascular workout," Montgomery added. "I
   never asked for this, not during an intense incline push or even a
   slow cooldown."
     Nation Joggers jump

   LEADING FINDERS OF CORPSES

   Sacramento-based runner Keith Stafford said the problem has gotten so
   bad for him that after he happened upon his latest body, an
   unidentified newborn girl, he considered "leaving it there under the
   park bench for someone else to find for a change."

   "Why must runners bear this burden?" Stafford said. "My brother's a
   baker, but he never opens his oven to find a severed head inside."

   To help remedy the problem, the American Joggers Association has
   proposed creating special police jogging units in major metropolitan
   areas. The units, active chiefly during the early morning and
   late-evening hours, would patrol parks, beaches, docks, vacant lots,
   factory grounds, and other common dumping sites for grisly murders.

   AJA President Nancy Staudenmeyer said that the problem now affects
   more than just recreational joggers. "[Kenyan marathoner] Evans Rutto
   would most likely have won last year's Boston Marathon had he not come
   across an execution-style murder during Mile 19, and been detained and
   questioned for over an hour," Staudenmeyer said. "And because the
   victim's hysterical mother barged in on his interrogation, Evans
   wasn't even able to finish the race."

   The AJA has created a support network for corpse-finding runners,
   establishing a toll-free hotline and holding a series of 5K "fun
   runs," all held in sealed-off, freshly cleaned, well-lit gymnasiums.
   The AJA also produced a series of print and TV public service
   announcements depicting an exasperated jogger discovering the body of
   a mutilated prostitute and immediately text-messaging his congressman.

   "The PSAs have been very effective for raising awareness,"
   Staudenmeyer said. "There were a lot of joggers out there who thought
   they were the only ones finding bodies. Once they learn they're not
   alone, we can all work together to find a solution to this major
   inconvenience."

   Still, many have given up running altogether, saying that the prospect
   of finding a naked body cut up with surgical precision has sapped
   whatever enjoyment they used to derive from the activity.

   "I wanted to find something to replace running, so I took up fishing,
   " former St. Paul, MN jogger Derek Janowitz said. "That is, until my
   canoe bumped into that floating [strangling] victim."

   "I finally just gave up and bought a Stairmaster," he added.

   Public officials have not yet addressed joggers' concerns. Some
   privately admit that having joggers find dead bodies is a more
   effective and vastly more cost-efficient crime fighting alternative
   than using local law enforcement.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Braving balmy temperatures and sunny skies, millions
   of scarfless snowmen and snowwomen gathered in cities across the world
   Tuesday to raise public awareness about the heavy toll global warming
   is taking on their health and well-being.
   [4]Enlarge Image Nation's Snowmen March Against Global Warming 

   Snowmen from across the nation gather at the Washington Monument to
   protest global warming.

   According to organizers of marches in Washington, Atlanta, Montreal,
   Berlin, London, Reykjavik, and Moscow, global warming is the primary
   cause of the steep reduction in the snowman population throughout the
   Northern Hemisphere. Demonstrators worldwide called on their
   governments to take more aggressive steps to reduce the effects of
   climate change.

   Organizers estimated the crowd at more than 375,000, but D.C. Police
   Commissioner Charles Stacey estimated turnout at 30,000 whole snowmen,
   with scattered rounded abdomens accounting for an additional 5,000.
   Atlanta organizers and police agree that all demonstrators had melted
   by 11 a.m.

   Joe Centigrade, president of the Advocates For Beings Of Frozen
   Precipitation, spoke at a mass rally Tuesday on Washington's National
   Mall.

   "The unseasonably warm winters of the recent past are a clear
   indication of a real environmental threat to humans and their frozen
   simulacra," said Centigrade, his coals arranged in a frowning pattern.
   "As snowmen and snowwomen, we accept the inevitability of melting, but
   the actions of man are causing us to evaporate well before our time."

   Speakers at the Washington rally included a Chicago snowwoman who had
   lost three snowchildren to warm temperatures, the Rev. Jesse Jackson,
   and Larry Chilly, formerly a 6-foot-tall, triple-segmented Muncie, IN
   snowman, who had been reduced to a slushy head.

   Centigrade told the slowly melting snowcrowd that as recently as 15
   years ago, the average life span of a snowperson built in late
   December was three weeks to a month. Today, that same snowperson has
   an average life span of two weeks.

   Centigrade also recounted stories of once-jolly snowmen unable to keep
   their carrot noses in their fast-melting faces, and of others who were
   made of only two undersize segments.

   "In many regions of New England today, there's not even enough snow on
   the ground to make snowballs, much less a torso," Centigrade said.
   "Instead, some snowmen are stuck together with slush and leaves rather
   than pure, white snow. We must take steps now to end their suffering."

   Bearing signs with such slogans as "You Can't Build A Snowman With
   Rain" and "Winter = Life," the crystalline-ice protestors, many of
   whom had chartered refrigerated tractor-trailers and ice-cream trucks
   to travel to the mass protest, complained that popular stereotypes
   about snowmen obscure and trivialize the crisis.
   [5]Enlarge Image Nation's Snowmen March Against Global Warming 

   Larry Chilly speaks out against mankind's global irresponsibility.

   "Humans sneer at us, 'If you want to stay intact, go to the North Pole
   and live with Santa,'" said Susie Flakeman, a Thunder Bay, Ontario
   snowwoman waiting in line with hundreds of others to use a
   Porta-Freezer. "But less than one-half of 1 percent of us ever receive
   that honor. Most of us end up victims of the scourge that almost
   killed Frosty: man-made climate change."

   The protest was largely peaceful, disrupted only by a disturbing
   incident in which one distraught snowman hurled himself into the
   reflecting pool of the National Mall. He suffered third-degree slush
   on over 90 percent of his body before rescuers could recover him. He
   was rushed to a local meat locker where he was pronounced melted on
   arrival.

   Some scientists refuted the snowbeings' claims regarding global
   warming.

   "Throughout history, the earth has endured periods of temperature
   fluctuation," said Dr. Harley Morrison, a biochemist who has advised
   President Bush on scientific issues. "Also, there have already been
   several major blizzards throughout North America this season alone. I
   made a snowman myself, and he lasted for several weeks."

   Late word arrived Tuesday evening that the Moscow protest was
   violently dispersed by riot police bearing hot-water hoses and snow
   blowers. Moscow officials said the snowmen were illegally blocking
   pedestrian traffic near the Kremlin and causing people to slip and
   fall in their slushy wakes. Snow leaders, including Centigrade,
   condemned the crackdown.

   "Those of us who remember the Icelandic anti-heated-sidewalk riots of
   the 1980s know that the powers that be despise and fear snowmen who
   fight for their rights," Centigrade said. "They'd rather kill the
   messengers than face the fact that our ecosystems are changing
   irreparably. We're prepared to stay in D.C. as long as it takes until
   Congress agrees to listen to our demands."

   Before he could conclude his remarks, Centigrade's face slid off.


   NEW YORK--As winter tightens its grip on the nation, hockey fans from
   coast to coast are breaking out their team sweaters for the first time
   in what seems like ages, eagerly anticipating attending their first
   professional hockey game since the NHL's lockout began quite some time
   ago.
   [4]Enlarge Image Nation Gears Up R 

   "Oh, hockey's back? Well, I'm glad they finally got that whole thing
   resolved," said North Carolina resident Max Sherwood, adding that once
   the ponds of Raleigh freeze over, he would definitely consider going
   to a game. "I remember I used to see it on TV now and then, but not
   for a while, come to think of it. It's nice they're going to have that
   again."

   "I hope we can beat the Russians again, at any rate," Sherwood added.

   To fans of the NHL, there is nothing that comes close to hockey, and
   no doubt its sudden disappearance from the world of competitive sports
   some time in the last few years came as a crushing disappointment to
   the hockey faithful. But with the new year upon us, those die-hard
   fans will soon be thrilled by the breathtaking exploits of luminaries
   such as Mark Messier, Mario Lemieux, Gordie Howe, Paul Coffey, Barry
   Melrose, the Quebec Nordiques, and Wayne "The Great" Gretzky. And, as
   always, the NHL hopes that newcomers to the sport might find it fills
   the void between the college bowl games and the NBA All-Star Game.

   "I still can't believe they skate the entire time," said Phoenix
   resident Brent Quigley. "I've never managed to actually see more than
   a couple games back when they used to show them, and I've never been
   to one, because it's a pretty long drive to Los Angeles. But it's
   colorful, what with the fights and all, right?"

   Pittsburgh, a major hockey hotbed, is reportedly abuzz with hockey-mad
   fans, as the local Pittsburgh players are once again expected to make
   another run at the elusive championship.

   "You do remember that we actually won one a while ago? I'm pretty sure
   we did," said outspoken superstar Jagr, who, before the lockout, many
   hockey insiders claimed was on pace to break an important league
   record or records. "And yes, I think we are doing okay so far. It's
   early," added Jagr, apparently referring to his team's preseason
   record, after being asked if his team had a chance to win the Stanley
   Trophy.

   Though the league promises that rule changes made during the lockout
   will promote a faster, higher-scoring style of play that should
   attract Americans to the sport, the NHL may still have difficulty
   competing with other nationally televised athletic events that have
   traditionally earned a larger audience, such as professional football,
   college football, arena football, professional basketball, college
   basketball, women's professional basketball, NASCAR season highlight
   retrospectives, motocross, the And-1 Mix Tape Basketball Tour, NASCAR
   season previews, Monday Night RAW, professional bass fishing, the
   upcoming pay-per-view Oscar de la Hoya fight, ESPN Classic, the
   Ultimate Fighting Championship and its accompanying reality show,
   amateur bass fishing, highlights of Staten Island Yankees workouts,
   and college hockey.

   "We certainly think Americans have forgiven us for the lockout by now,
   and will continue to attend our games," said NHL commissioner Gary
   Bettman, who was also acting commissioner during the work stoppage
   that resulted in the cancellation of hockey's equivalent of the world
   series for the first time in 90 years.

   "It was certainly a difficult time for this league, but I think last
   season showed everyone we have what it takes to get our fans' hearts
   back," Bettman added, evidently speaking of the high standard of play
   preceding the strike.

   Although the NHL has yet to sign a broadcast package contract with a
   major television station, most networks say they are committed to
   giving out the more important hockey scores if time permits. ESPN, the
   last national network to feature a comprehensive schedule of NHL
   games, has said it will continue to report results of games during the
   popular Did You Know? segment, and would consider showing any Game 7
   of a championship series if the NHL could afford the airtime.


   NEW YORK--Delirium swept the nation this summer as the release of the
   seventh and final Harry Potter novel sent millions of Americans into a
   frenzy over some little wizard boy and all his flying wizard buddies
   going on another one of their little wizard adventures.
   [4]Enlarge Image Nation in Frenzy 

   WIZARD FEVER: Just look at all the people in their pointy wizard hats.

   Thousands lined up at bookstores to purchase the fanciful tale, which
   chronicles the exploits of the adolescent wizard with his pointy hat
   and glasses, as he and his magical little friends go traipsing into
   the forbidden forest and attempt to defeat the evil Hufflestuff people
   with the sword of destiny, magic potions, and other such fantasy
   dragon bullshit.

   "I can't wait to see what happens to Harry!" said Boston resident
   Julie Nolsteen, 28, just one of many grown adults with an unbridled
   desire to read about child sorcerers playing with their little
   cauldrons and frolicking around reciting magical spells.

   Nolsteen proceeded to rub her hands together with anticipation and
   ponder the fate of her favorite character, some guy named Dumblededoo
   or something.

   The entire nation has been all worked up ever since J.K. Rowling
   announced that she would be concluding the series, with men and women
   waiting with bated breath to see if all the tiny little wizards were
   going to do all their crazy magic curses again. Message boards flooded
   with comments from fans who eagerly wondered whether the wizard boy
   was going to be eaten by mean old witches, or if he and all his
   mystical pals were going to find the fairy crystal and have themselves
   a grand old wizard time.

   "This is the most important book in the history of literature," wrote
   one man wearing a robe with moons and stars on it, who was clearly
   unable to conceal his enthusiasm for flying horses and magic dust. "I
   hope Lord Voldemort loses!"

   Although the fervor has subsided since the book's release this summer,
   the promise of a new Harry Potter film next year has already gotten
   the whole country excited beyond all reason to see the little wizard
   boy fly around on his little broomstick for two and a half hours.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Saying the time had come for America to recognize
   "some of its most unsung heroes," President Bush issued a statement
   Tuesday announcing the creation of Black History Month History Week,
   which is to be held in the last seven days of February and will honor
   the men and women who pioneered the commemoration of Black History
   Month.
   [4]Enlarge Image Nation To 

   Officials unveil a new commemorative Gerald Ford stamp.

   "From Monday, February 19, to Sunday, February 25, I invite the
   American people to join Laura and me in remembering those who made a
   difference in remembering those who made a difference in the rich
   history of this great land of ours," read Bush's statement. "People
   like Cleveland Mayor Michael White, who recited Martin Luther King,
   Jr's famous 'I Have A Dream' speech during Black History Month in
   2004; event planner Sheila Carter, whose passion and determination
   forever changed the face of commemorating civil rights in America;
   and, of course, the Father of Black History Month, Gerald Ford, who
   first signed [Black History Month] into law."

   "Without the achievements and sacrifices of these brave folks, it's
   hard to imagine where African Americans would be today--especially
   during February," the statement continued. "We must never, ever take
   Black History Month for granted."

   All four major television networks are planning to preempt Black
   History Month programming with airing Black History Month History Week
   specials every weeknight. The networks have scheduled more than two
   dozen 30-second profiles of various Black History Month pioneers,
   including Annette Van Stijn, a former CBS News producer who created
   the first Black History Month network interstitial spots in 1980, and
   William Thorndike III, the first man to register the domain name
   "BlackHistoryMonth.com."

   PBS, meanwhile, will air a two-part Ric Burns documentary on the
   towering Black History Month figure, documentary maker Ken Burns.

   "No one has done more to bring black history to the average viewer
   during Black History Month than Ken Burns," Burns said. "I only hope I
   can do justice to the artful way he illuminated black history's giants
   by illuminating one of Black History Month's giants."

   President Bush and the First Lady are scheduled to hold a Black
   History Month History Week reception, to be hosted by Greg Gumbel, in
   the White House East Room on Feb. 23. The gala event will honor a
   number of guests including Portland, OR fifth-grade teacher Jo Bishop,
   who has what is considered to be the largest collection of Black
   History Month stamps, Carl Johnson, the first black director of a
   Black History Month TV special, and Hallmark illustrator Mark Spencer,
   who created over 250 Black History Month-themed greeting-card designs.

   The reception will also include a meal prepared by New Orleans chef
   Emeril Lagasse and a blues performance by Eric Clapton. The evening
   will conclude with the unveiling of a new commemorative coin
   commemorating the first-ever Black History Month commemorative coin,
   and a keynote address by Sidney Poitier biographer James Shimkus.

   Black History Month History Week has not gone without controversy,
   however. Some southern school districts are refusing to acknowledge
   it, and some black activists have criticized the lack of minorities
   being honored.

   "Where's the fanfare for those tireless African-American booking
   agents representing the Reverends Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson, whose
   dedication and perseverance ensured that this country would have to
   listen to two of Black History Month's most important spokespeople?"
   Nation Of Islam Minister Louis Farrakhan said. "Black History Month
   history is made all throughout February, not just in one week of it."

   "It's no surprise that the white man chose the last week of the
   shortest month to honor Black History Month," Farrakhan continued.

   Former president Bill Clinton took a break from Black History Month
   celebrations at Harlem's famed Apollo Theater to praise the move, but
   called on Bush to designate the last Wednesday of every February as
   Black History Month History Week History Day.

   "While this certainly is long overdue, we must not forget those
   leaders and elected officials of our past who set the stage for the
   creation of Black History Month History Week," Clinton said. "Only
   then will the contributions of these amazing Americans truly be
   honored."


   CINCINNATI--Overcome with a mixture of distaste at the almost certain
   future and a wistful sense at the way things could and should have
   been, baseball fans across America took time to address veteran Reds
   superstar Ken Griffey Jr. yesterday in order to let him know that they
   sincerely wish that Griffey, and not Barry Bonds, was on the verge of
   hitting his record-breaking 756th home run.
   [4]Enlarge Image Ken Griffey 

   "Don't take this the wrong way, Mr. Griffey, because the last thing we
   as a nation want is for you to think you've disappointed us by not
   breaking this record," the country's message, which was read to a
   quiet and humble Griffey by retired Seattle, WA-area mechanical
   engineer and lifelong baseball fan Robert Colgrave, began. "America
   knows you did everything you could, and we couldn't be more proud of
   you. In fact, that's the whole point--we think you're a man who is
   actually worthy of this record."

   "Believe us, if life was as fair as baseball, you'd have 760 homers
   right now," said Colgrave, pausing as if momentarily overcome. "More,
   even. And you'd still be chalking them up. You're a natural talent.
   God's gift to the baseball diamond. It's just... Damn bad luck, is
   all. Bad luck and trouble."

   The likeable but injury-plagued Griffey currently stands eighth on the
   all-time home-run list with 574, only nine back from Mark McGwire in
   seventh. However, America insists that without the bizarre injuries
   that plagued his career, Griffey would have had a legitimate shot at
   hitting 756.

   "I mean, when a guy misses out on the Rookie of the Year because he
   slips and hurts his wrist in the shower... Where's the sense in that?"
   America said. "Being denied the single-season home run record in 1994
   because of the baseball strike? Not fair. It's amazing that with every
   bad hand you've been dealt that you haven't packed it in and called it
   a day. Frankly, you're an inspiration--unlike some players this nation
   could name."

   The nation then went out of its way to praise Griffey for the many
   great moments and high points of Griffey's career, claiming it had
   "always meant to do so but never seemed to find the right moment."
   Special attention was paid to Griffey's decision to play for his
   father's old team, wearing his father's No. 30, in the city of his
   youth; his decision to wear Jackie Robinson's No. 42 on Jackie
   Robinson Day, and to encourage other players to do so; and his
   appearance on The Fresh Prince Of Bel-Air.

   Throughout the address, the nation emphasized the humility, grace, and
   joy with which Griffey embraced the national pastime. They talked
   about buying his batting gloves and signature baseball cleats as
   children, imitating his stance and perfect home-run swing in batting
   cages, and how they would ask their father's to hit long fly balls so
   they could make "Griffey-esque" catches in centerfield. They talked
   about his 1989 Upper Deck rookie card, and how, instead of going down
   in value with every hamstring injury, it should have skyrocketed in
   price with his 800th, maybe 900th home run. They talked about the guy
   who made wearing baseball caps backwards cool. And they talked about
   the elation they felt when Griffey became the first one to ever hit
   the Camden Yards Warehouse during a monstrous shot in 1993's Home Run
   Derby.

   "I would be proud to have Ken Griffey Jr. break my home-run record,"
   current record-holder and Hall of Fame legend Hank Aaron said upon
   being told of the nation's statement. "I would most certainly attend
   any game in which he had a chance of doing so. And I would come down
   from the stands and hug him fiercely after he crossed the plate and
   had been congratulated by his teammates. I really don't think I'd be
   able to help myself."

   "Hell, I'll probably attend the game he's playing in when my record is
   broken in any case," Aaron added.

   Baseball commissioner Bud Selig, responding to overwhelming demand,
   has confirmed that an asterisk will be placed next to Griffey's name
   in the record books in order to indicate that, in a perfect world
   where dignity is always rewarded, cheaters never triumph, and people
   always get what they really deserve, Griffey would have hit one more
   home run than Barry Bonds' career total.


   ATLANTA--The NCAA tournament field narrowed a little further--and
   became much more intense--on Monday night as the University of Florida
   tallied a convincing 84-75 victory over Ohio State University to
   advance further into college basketball's championship, making 2007
   the second time in as many years that Florida has reached the NCAA
   Tournament's Round Of One.

   However, Florida head coach Billy Donovan says that this time around,
   his team hopes to win it all.
   [4]Enlarge Image NCAA Tournament 

   "Anyone who knows their college hoops will tell you that the Round Of
   One is when the real tournament begins," said Donovan during the
   post-game press conference from Atlanta's Georgia Dome, adding that
   his team could go down as one of the best in the history of college
   basketball if they can advance past the next few rounds. "This was a
   great victory for our team, and a good confidence-booster, but it
   doesn't mean anything if we don't win next week."

   "I'm just going to enjoy this victory for tonight," he added,
   responding to a questions about possible adjustments the Gators will
   have to make in the future. "But tomorrow it's back to work. It only
   gets harder from here on out, folks."

   Thus far, Florida has moved methodically through the tournament,
   easily making it into the Round Of 32, the Sweet 16, Elite Eight, and
   the Final Four, but now has to deal once again with the pressures that
   accompany being the Wondrous One.

   "Last tournament we were a young team--we weren't ready for all the
   media attention and the grind. This year, we are totally focused,"
   said star center Joakim Noah, who was voted Most Outstanding Player of
   the 2006 Wondrous One for his play against UCLA, but struggled visibly
   with endurance and composure in subsequent rounds. "This is why I came
   back to Florida--to get past the Round Of One and, hopefully, on to
   the championship. I had something to prove, and so did this entire
   team. We're hungrier than we've ever been."

   Noah added that he made the mistake of playing too hard in last year's
   regular season and failed to pace himself through the early rounds of
   the tournament, and credits his steady but unspectacular 12
   points-per-game average this year as part of a concerted effort to
   save his energy.

   "I think Florida definitely has what it takes," said ESPN college
   basketball analyst Digger Phelps, who will call Florida's next game.
   "But there is so much pressure at this stage in the tournament that if
   a team comes out flat like, say, UCLA did in 1972, you just never
   know. That's what makes the tournament so exciting."

   Ohio State coach Thad Madda admitted in an interview outside a somber
   Ohio State locker room that his young team was "just not ready" to
   play amongst the elite, even going so far as to say that if his team
   did defeat Florida to move on in the tournament he would have had to
   contend with players wanting to go home at the end of their semesters
   in late April.

   "Heck, to win your final game, and end the NCAA Tournament with a
   couple dozen victories and no losses is everyone's dream, but
   truthfully, I don't know if [center] Greg [Oden] would have even been
   able to play in the championship game," Madda said, referring to the
   possibility of Oden being drafted by the NBA on June 28, two weeks
   before the final round of the NCAA Tournament. "I certainly wish
   Florida the best of luck the rest of the way."

   Though college basketball fans across the nation have enjoyed the
   tournament's close games, many are hoping that there are some upsets
   as tournament play continues in Charlotte, Pittsburgh, New Orleans,
   and Portland.  Fans will surely be glued to their television sets as
   all weekend games can be seen on CBS, while games during the week will
   air on ESPN, with the overflow being broadcast on ESPN 2.

   "I made a few crazy picks in my office pool that I'm hoping will pan
   out," Philadelphia resident Geoff Caldwell said. "Luckily, I had
   Florida going this far, but I don't think they'll make it to
   Nashville. After the Round Of One, the competition just gets too
   tough."

   If Florida does advance past the next round, it will be the farthest
   the Gators have advanced in the NCAA Tournament since it was
   fractionated in 1970.


   ANNAPOLIS, MD-In times of crisis, local neurotic Beth Haller is
   thankful to have a support network to turn to: her group of equally
   neurotic friends.

   "My friends are so important to me," said 36-year-old Haller, tearing
   up as she spoke. "They're always there for me, and I do my best to be
   there for them."

   Haller and her three closest friends, Shannon Olbrich, Jennifer Beech,
   and Leslie Chevik, are in near-constant contact, sharing stories of
   hardship over the phone, at local coffee shops, and during intense
   weekly get-togethers over multiple bottles of wine-a Sunday-night
   ritual they refer to as their "recharging sessions."
   [4]Enlarge Image Neurotic Woman 

   Beth Haller (right) discusses her relationship issues with her closest
   neurotic friends.

   "Do you think my wearing my hair like this is some sort of
   subconscious cry for attention?" Haller asked the trio of fellow
   neurotics at a recent recharging session. "I know I said I wanted to
   be happier with my self-image, but then I realized, how can I be truly
   comfortable with the inner me when the outer me doesn't match my image
   of the me I see when I form a mental picture of the person I think I
   truly am?"

   "Oh, totally," Olbrich said. "That's why I got the interior of my car
   reupholstered. Something just wasn't right until I did. But now I wish
   I would have gotten black. Do you think the tan looks stupid? At
   first, I really liked it, but now I think maybe it just looks cheap.
   You don't think so, do you?"

   Haller said that close friends "have literally saved [her] life" on
   countless occasions.

   "I know this isn't how it's supposed to be, and I feel guilty about
   it, but my friends are more like a family to me than my actual
   family," Haller said through subsequent tears. "That's okay, right? I
   mean, I love my family, but Jen, Shannon, and Leslie are the ones I
   spend real Q.T. with."

   Though members of Haller's family care about her well-being, most
   maintain little contact with her.

   "I just couldn't stand it anymore," said Haller's sister, Deborah
   Barkum, who lives in nearby Edgewater. "I'd get frantic phone calls in
   the middle of the night about some meaningless comment her boss made.
   She'd drop by for dinner, and I'd spend six hours listening to her go
   on about how she has to find a new apartment because the landlord
   refuses to do anything about the dogs down the hall. I finally made a
   rule: I'll talk to her on weekends, but that's it."

   For years, Barkum was frustrated by her sister's emotional neediness,
   but most of Haller's neurotic behavior is now addressed by her cadre
   of neurotic friends, from whom she receives constant affirmation and
   reinforcement. As a bonus for Haller, her friends' own neuroses make
   it easier for her to view her perpetual state of anxiety as normal.

   "Beth is such a special person, so complex and multi-layered," the
   Prozac-taking Chevik said. "I'm happy to be there for her when she
   needs a shoulder to cry on."

   "It is truly amazing how she's held on after the split," Beech said of
   Haller's 1991 divorce, still a major source of pain, heartache, and
   confusion for her 10 years later.

   Beech herself knows the pain of love lost. Six years ago, she dated a
   man for two months and then suddenly never heard from him again.
   According to Haller, the experience has made it impossible for her
   friend to trust any man.

   "Poor Jen," Haller said. "She was badly wounded by someone who said
   he'd call and then never did, and, as a result, she's built up this
   wall to protect her from ever leaving herself vulnerable like that
   again."

   Added Haller: "It seems like some of us have our load to bear in life,
   and no matter what we do, it never gets any lighter."

   Haller was cryptically alluding to any one of her own crises,
   including: her strained relationship with her mother, caused by an
   offhand comment her mother made in 1979 about never having expected to
   have a third child; her indecision about whether to return to school
   to receive a Masters degree in English; her "demeaning and
   demoralizing" research-assistant job, one of the few positions in
   publishing that a divorced woman her age can get; her home computer's
   hard-drive crash, which wiped out nearly five pages of notes for the
   novella she intends to write someday; and her new relationship with a
   man who is obviously a commitment-phobe, begging the question of what
   is the point of even proceeding to a third date.


   LA JOLLA, CA--Since several shrewd investments in software start-ups
   pushed his net worth over the $1 billion mark last fall, Mark Stern
   has been attempting to cultivate eccentricities commensurate with his
   new wealth, the venture capitalist said Monday.
   [4]Enlarge Image New Billionaire 

   Stern prepares to fly his newly completed rocket to a movie premiere
   100 miles away in Hollywood, via the moon.

   "When you have $975 million, you're just like everyone else," said
   Stern, 41, from the bow of Excelsior, a 58-person canoe that he
   commissioned for a world-record paddle around the world. "But I'm a
   billionaire now. People expect me to use my money to feed my ego to
   the point of borderline insanity."

   The often-caped Stern, previously an affable and soft-spoken man who
   kept a relatively low public profile aside from some philanthropic
   work, said his new status forced him to rethink his legacy.

   "I was being referred to as 'California billionaire Mark Stern,' or
   simply 'billionaire Mark Stern,' and it lacked impact," the mogul
   said. "So I vowed not to rest until every mention of my name is
   prefaced with 'eccentric California billionaire.'"

   Stern added: "And just to be clear, there's no way I'm settling for
   'colorful California billionaire.'"

   Though Stern said he is "beginning to get the hang of" billionaire
   life, he admitted to a few false starts while developing his bizarre
   idiosyncrasies, citing his easygoing, essentially rational nature as a
   major obstacle.

   "I did try the Howard Hughes thing of stockpiling urine in jars and
   wearing Kleenex boxes on my feet, but it was so depressing and
   lonely," Stern said. "Plus, I realized that it's not eccentric to copy
   someone else's eccentricities."

   Stern knows he has a long way to go before realizing his long-term
   goal of transforming himself into a full-blown, self-made eccentric,
   complete with a half-baked social philosophy of his own invention and
   an extremely expensive collection of worthless art.

    After abandoning plans to live permanently in a dirigible-lofted
   mansion in the sky, Stern decided to "start over at square one."

   "I started doing stuff like recoiling from shaking people's hands,
   smelling everything I picked up, and referring to myself as 'the
   anointed one,'" Stern said. "Nothing too out-there or grandiose, just
   some basic weirdness to keep up appearances while I tried to come up
   with the really original oddities."

   "I did retain some of the more esoteric affectations, though," added
   Stern, brandishing a pure ivory cane topped with a crystal sphere
   containing a lock of his recently deceased mother's hair.

   Though he now houses five of the world's 40 remaining albino
   alligators in his custom-made lucite dining room table, Stern had
   until recently been noted for his frugal tastes.

   "Mark drove a 1999 Toyota Corolla, and he used to pride himself on
   shopping at the Men's Wearhouse even though he could afford much nicer
   things," longtime friend Thomas Bowen said. "Now he only wears
   jumpsuits made of some space-age micro- fiber paper that he
   incinerates after one use, and all I ever hear about is his hydrogen-
   powered rocket sled that he's taking to Antarctica to break the sound
   barrier or something."

   Continued Bowen: "The worst thing, though, is how he's always asking
   everybody 'Is this eccentric enough? Is that eccentric enough?' It's
   getting really annoying."

   Stern said some of his recent lifestyle changes have taken their toll
   on him. Last Thursday, his divorce from his third Ukrainian
   contortionist-performance artist wife in as many months became final.
   And La Jolla police continue to question Stern after several members
   of a cult he claims he dissolved in February were arrested on charges
   of stalking the deputy governor of California.

   "I've made a lot of sacrifices," Stern said. "Do you think I love
   sleeping nude in a hyperbaric chamber pumped with pure circulating
   oxygen, or only eating foods that are white? The sad truth is, you
   can't always do what you want when you're a billionaire."

   "That's just something I'll have to live with until my bones are
   interred in the moon's Clavius crater," Stern added.


   MANAUS, BRAZIL--An international team of scientists conducting
   research in the Amazon River Basin announced the discovery of a
   formerly unknown primate species inhabiting a remote jungle area
   roughly 300 miles from Manaus Monday. According to scientists in
   Manaus, the new species, Ateles saporis, is "an amazing biological
   find" and "incredibly delectable."

   [4]Enlarge Image species 

   A member of Ateles saporis, which scientists say tastes excellent
   broiled (below).

   "We couldn't be more thrilled!" German researcher Dr. Jerome Keller
   told reporters Tuesday. "Very few scientists are lucky enough to
   discover a new species, let alone a mammal with a palatability on par
   with a tender, juicy steak."

   "This is a seriously tasty creature," Keller added.

   Although the creature resembles a large kitten, as a member of the
   Ateles genus, it is more closely related to wooly and spider monkeys.
   Ateles saporis, informally known as the delicacy ape, is a
   tree-dwelling herbivore that can measure up to a meter from head to
   tail. The adult delicacy ape weighs between 35 and 40 pounds and
   tastes wonderful with a currant glaze.

   Keller said the new species boasts a gular sac, a distinctive trait
   that separates it from other species in the Ateles genus.

   "The gular sac is a throat pouch that can be inflated, allowing the
   animal to make loud calls that resonate through the treetops," Keller
   said. "More importantly, the pouch can be stuffed with nuts or dried
   fruits prior to roasting."

   Biologist Jeanette Bransky, who served as the research team's chief
   archivist, presented a series of slides showing delicacy apes
   cavorting in trees, caring for their young, and sitting thinly sliced
   on a platter next to roasted red potatoes.

   "After careful study, we have determined that Ateles saporis is a very
   insulated species," Bransky said. "All of their food needs are met in
   the treetops. They're docile, affectionate creatures with a
   non-competitive social structure. They often sit grooming each other
   for hours on end, which explains why their meat is so marbled and
   tender."

   [5]Enlarge Image Species Jump 

   This marks the first primate species discovered since the nearly
   inedible Arunachal macaque was found in India last year.

   "In our studies of the delicacy ape, we have noted several traits,
   such as play activities, that are almost human," Bransky said.
   "However, the similarities do not run much deeper than that. Take the
   loin, for example. Unlike a human's, it's so savory and delicate that
   it can be eaten just like sashimi."

   "Raw or cooked, this species is one of the greatest discoveries of the
   21st century," added Bransky, licking her lips.

   The team plans to research the species for another two months and then
   publish its findings in both the International Journal Of Primatology
   and Bon Apptit.

   "We still need to complete an accurate population-density study,"
   Keller said. "We assume that their habitat is limited to the Amazon
   and that their total number is very small. We need to gather data
   quickly, as the species is almost certainly facing extinction. I mean,
   it's that good."

   Keller said the discovery of the delicacy ape underscores the
   importance of protecting delicate ecosystems from mass deforestation.

   "The Amazon River Basin boasts the greatest biodiversity in the world,
   with countless potentially tasty species waiting to be discovered,"
   Keller said. "As for the delicacy ape, I only hope there's something
   we can do to preserve it. Maybe we can get them to breed in captivity.
   Generations to come should have the opportunity to enjoy the taste of
   this majestic creature."


   WASHINGTON--Citing exhaustion, an overcrowded field of candidates, and
   little hope of making a difference in 2008, roughly 300 million
   Americans announced Tuesday that they will be leaving the presidential
   race behind.
   [4]Enlarge Image Americans Announce They're Dropping Out Of
   Presidential Race 

   The U.S. populace, which has participated in every national election
   since 1789, said that while the decision to abandon next year's race
   was difficult, recent events, such as disappointing victories by both
   Sen. Hillary Clinton (D-NY) and former New York City mayor Rudolph
   Giuliani in regional straw polls, left them with no real choice.

   "We gave it our best shot, and for a while it seemed like the American
   people actually had a chance of coming out on top," Weare, NH resident
   Mark Simmons said at a press conference in front of his suburban home.
   "Unfortunately, as much as we'd like to remain optimistic, it's become
   clear that this just isn't our year."

   Added Simmons: "Maybe you'll see us again in 2012."

   Though initially excited about making universal health care a reality
   and putting an end to the Iraq war, the American people appeared
   visibly worn down after only three months of campaigning. According to
   Beltway observers, idealism among Americans began to fade after the
   first series of major televised debates in August, during which every
   citizen in every state realized they would have to compromise their
   core values in order to remain in the race.

   Factors including intense media coverage of seemingly trivial issues,
   destructive partisan bickering, and the relentless exploitation of
   9/11 only seemed to further discourage Americans from making it to
   Election Day.

   "As the obvious underdogs, we knew that the chance of Americans
   winning in 2008 was slim to none," said Seattle native Paul
   Waverchuck, who claimed he was looking forward to spending more time
   with his family after giving up politics. "I guess there's just no
   room at the table for the vast majority of this country's citizens."
   [5]Enlarge Image Trashed Political Campaign Signs 

   An Ames, IA warehouse bears the brunt of the fallout from Americans'
   decision to leave the presidential race.

   Some pundits predicted months ago that U.S. citizens would lose steam
   before the first round of primaries in January. Unable to endure the
   breakneck pace of morning talk-show interviews and the constant
   coverage and scrutiny of Hillary Clinton's laugh, Americans reportedly
   began to lose focus as early as mid-September.

   A strong October surge in several states by Republican candidate and
   Mormon Mitt Romney made it clear to thousands that it was time to
   throw in the towel.

   "Once Law & Order star Fred Thompson declared his candidacy and Barack
   Obama started using religion to win votes, you could tell America's
   heart wasn't in it anymore," Washington Post correspondent Dan Balz
   said. "They knew it was over for them."

   While not necessarily shocked by the news, some political observers
   have lamented the recent departure of the nation's citizens from the
   2008 elections.

   "American men and women were the only real opposition to frontrunners
   like Clinton and Giuliani," New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd
   said. "They were the only ones who seemed to have the public's best
   interest truly in mind. Without them, it's not going to be much of a
   contest."

   While admitting to being disappointed by the results, Americans said
   they would continue to pursue lasting social change, whether by
   working overtime shifts in order to make education more affordable for
   their children, or by selling some of their belongings in order to
   provide medical coverage for aging family members.

   "Politics are all well and good, but sometimes you have to look for
   solutions outside of Washington if you want to get things done," said
   Henrietta Tanner, a single mother of three from Boise, ID. "Like
   standing in line at the food bank down on Cavendish Avenue, for
   instance."


   NEW YORK--A television commercial for Nabisco's Fig Newton bars that
   debuted Friday preys on a wide range of innate human weaknesses, from
   greed and gluttony to the compulsive need for self-gratification in an
   otherwise cold and uncaring world, industry sources reported Monday.

   "Flattery, pride, self-aggrandizement, fear of rejection: This latest
   Fig Newtons ad campaign fires on all cylinders," advertising executive
   and CNBC talk-show host Donny Deutsch said. "It has nothing but
   contempt for its target audience, its exploitative nature borders on
   the unethical, and it's one of the most brilliant marketing strategies
   in years."
   [4]Enlarge Image New Fig 

   One of the most egregiously manipulative shots from the latest Fig
   Newtons TV spot.

   Though the mise-en-scne of the 20-second spot is simple enough--an
   overworked suburban mother experiences a dream of paradise while
   biting into a Fig Newton, oblivious to her overflowing washing machine
   and four raucous children--it reaches consumers from every age group
   and background, as well as those suffering from all forms of fear,
   regret, and crippling uncertainty.

   "Mmmm," intones a tellingly paternalistic narrator, masterfully
   invoking humanity's pained longing for a supreme truth and its often
   reckless pursuit of short-term solutions. "So chewy! So delicious! So
   completely irresistible!"

   "Isn't it time you took a Fig Newtons break?" the commercial
   continues, ruthlessly preying on mankind's escapist tendencies and
   seizing upon several deep-seated self-destructive impulses.

   Although the first 10 seconds alone employ enough psychological
   gambits to sway even the most emotionally secure viewer, Nabisco's
   latest ad leaves little to chance, tapping into bedrock human faults
   like susceptibility to guilt and the slavish desire for acceptance to
   push the sale of its fig-filled treats.

   "It's a perfect, wholesome snack for any time of the day," the
   commercial eagerly announces, while the image of a young
   child--himself a physical representation of purity--tempts viewers
   with the prospect of recapturing their long-lost sense of innocence.
   "Fig Newtons are ooey-gooey great!"

   "Go on, you deserve it!" the psychologically manipulative onslaught
   persists, at once addressing, encouraging, and currying feelings of
   inferiority and self-doubt that have been a mainstay of the human
   condition for the past 6,000 years.

   "Fig Newtons--it's not a cookie, it's fruit and cake!" the
   advertisement finally concludes, subliminally appealing to consumers
   who have long yearned to break free of the confining categories into
   which society has placed them, and for whom even a commercially
   available dessert might symbolize the individuality they so intensely
   seek.

   According to marketing media analyst Glenda Howth, besides plumbing
   the depths of the human psyche, Nabisco's latest commercial also takes
   advantage of phenomena unique to modern society.

   "Nabisco shrewdly taps into a mother's conflict between wanting to
   care for her children while still retaining her pre-maternal sense of
   freedom and identity," Howth said. "Add an emphasis on the fat-free
   qualities of the snack that appeals to one's vanity and plays upon the
   often shallow connection made between physical attraction and
   self-worth in today's world, and you have one very powerful ad."

   Brown University psychology professor Scott Luchs concurred with
   Howth's assessment.

   "This might be the most subconsciously manipulative commercial I've
   seen since Procter & Gamble used man's fear of death to market Crest
   toothpaste," Luchs said. "In time, this ad could even rival M&M's 1983
   campaign of jealousy, resentment, and the need for human
   companionship."

   Although the true effectiveness of the commercial has yet to be seen,
   early figures from Nabisco indicate a nearly 4 percent sales increase
   among many prized demographics, including unmarried women ages 18 to
   37 who desperately wish to have a family, single men between the ages
   25 and 40 who suffer from unresolved abandonment issues, and girls in
   the 7-10 age bracket who already possess debilitating body image
   concerns.

   "I used to think Fig Newtons were bland and tasteless," said Martha
   Waterson, a recent divorce from Aberdeen, MD who is reflexively
   averse to change, is governed by prejudice and assumption, blindly
   trusts authority, believes in retribution, desires reassurance, is
   guilty of envy, lies to avoid hurtful truths, and suffers from
   separation and alienation anxiety. "Now I can't stop eating them."

   "I guess you never really know someone, huh?" Waterson added.


   NEW YORK--Academy Award-winning director Oliver Stone said Monday that
   his new film World Trade Center unveils "compelling and controversial"
   new evidence that a single plane was responsible for all four
   collisions in New York, Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania on Sept.
   11, 2001.
   [4]Enlarge Image Oliver Stone Jump Movie Sti 

   "There's no way anyone can ever deny there was only one plane."

   "Get ready to go through the looking glass here, people," Stone told
   reporters at a Manhattan press conference before an advance screening
   of the movie, which premieres Wednesday. "The film you are about to
   see is going to blow the lid off the 9/11 Commission's official report
   and expose a conspiracy that reaches the highest levels of
   government."

   World Trade Center, which stars Nicolas Cage as a dedicated Port
   Authority officer who stumbles on secret evidence amid the rubble and
   carnage of the terrorist attack, tells a story quite different from
   what Stone called "the official government line" about the event.
   According to the film, at 8:46 a.m., a lone commercial airliner flew
   diagonally through the North Tower of the World Trade Center,
   maintained a circular holding pattern for approximately 17 minutes,
   then struck the South Tower before heading to the Pentagon.
     Oliver Stone

   Stone

   After its collision with the center of American military operations,
   the so-called "magic plane"--which variously and ingeniously
   identified itself to air-traffic controllers as "American Airlines
   Flight 11," "United Airlines Flight 175," "American Airlines Flight
   77" and "United Airlines Flight 93"--took to the skies once again,
   landing at a top-secret "black-ops" Air Force base in West Virginia,
   where it was reloaded with a group of clones from another shadowy
   government program that Stone described as "shocking."

   Stone, who said he did not have time to explore the clone angle in the
   three-and-a-half-hour film, plans to do so in the sequel, September
   12.

   In a gripping sequence, undercover agents transmit pre-recorded
   cell-phone messages intended to fool loved ones and relatives with a
   false cover story as the aircraft heads to its final, prearranged
   crash site in the fields of southwestern Pennsylvania.
   [5]Enlarge Image Oliver Stone's Jump Map R 

   Viewers of the advance screening agreed that the most striking and
   pivotal scene was Cage's character's discovery of security-camera
   footage that affirmed the single-plane theory. Showing his skeptical
   but supportive wife the footage frame by frame, Cage notices that the
   so-called "first" plane, which, according to official, whitewashed
   reports, detonated upon impact with the North Tower in the initial
   collision, actually banks "back and to the left, circling for about 17
   minutes, and then diving into the other tower." He repeats the phrase
   over and over in increasing intensity, toggling back and forth between
   individual frames while the music swells and the emotional drama rises
   to a fever pitch.

   "After seeing that sequence, there's no way anyone can ever deny again
   that there was only one plane in the airspace over the eastern
   seaboard that morning," Stone said.

   "I am the most important filmmaker working today," he added.

   Early public reaction to the film has been skeptical. Many 9/11
   conspiracy theorists claim Stone is presenting an exploitative,
   far-fetched, and manipulative Hollywood version of the pain and
   suffering--including eye strain and carpal tunnel syndrome--they have
   undergone during their countless hours on the Internet in the
   tragedy's aftermath.

   Despite the controversy, Stone stands by his film. "This is a story
   that needs to be told, in a reality that only I can bring to the big
   screen," Stone said. "I realize it will be hard to accept for those
   unable to confront the truth, but I can't hide my head in the sand
   like some goddamn ostrich. To sin by silence when we should protest
   makes cowards out of men."


   WASHINGTON--After successfully gaining a majority in both the U.S.
   House and Senate in the 2006 midterm elections, the Democratic Party
   was mired in controversy when the newly elected speaker of the house,
   Rep. Pelosi (D-CA), was caught on camera wearing what appeared to be a
   skirt, ladies top, necklace, and pair of high heels.
   [4]Enlarge Image New Speaker 

   The speaker of the house openly addresses colleagues while wearing
   lipstick and pantyhose.

   Photographs and video showing the speaker traipsing around the House
   floor in the garish attire were leaked to C-SPAN moments after the
   110th Congress took office on Jan. 3. Since that time, Pelosi's
   unconventional clothing choice has been universally decried by
   Washington insiders as "a tragic blot on the long and honorable
   history of U.S. speakers."

   "I was shocked," said Wall Street Journal political analyst Kendra
   Graves. "This is not what I've come to expect from the House of
   Representatives--or the White House or Senate for that matter."

   Although Rep. Pelosi has made no attempts to downplay the scandal, the
   embattled speaker continues to draw controversy as more and more
   Americans have begun to voice their concern over a national
   legislative body being headed by an individual who enjoys wearing
   pantyhose in public.

   "What kind of a message does this send to our children?" Minneapolis
   mother of four Carol Hardwick asked. "That it's 'okay' for our top
   leaders to have long hair and paint their fingernails and speak in a
   high falsetto voice? This is America, for heaven's sake."

   While no formal plans have been issued to remove the speaker from
   office, key members of the Bush administration have publicly expressed
   disappointment with and disapproval of Pelosi's behavior.

   "It's disgusting," said Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who was
   wearing a three-piece suit and flats at the time.


   BRISTOL, CT--NFL officials and ESPN executives made an emergency
   announcement Tuesday stating that the 2007 NFL Player Draft may have
   to be postponed indefinitely, as draft guru Mel Kiper Jr.'s Big Board,
   the index-card-laden bulletin board used to catalog, rank, and track
   every single player in the draft, was accidentally knocked over late
   Monday night.
   [4]Enlarge Image NFL Draft 

   "I just got up from my seat at the table to get a cup of coffee, and I
   must have hit the Big Board with my shoulder," said Kiper, holding up
   a loose stack of cards bearing players' names, positions, and schools
   printed in his distinctive block letters. "Now, the entire draft has
   been jumbled all together and no one is sure what player should go
   when. We might have to wait until July for me to get everyone back
   where they belong."

   "Look at this," Kiper said, gesturing to a table where his Big Board
   lay uncharacteristically horizontal and bereft of player rankings.
   "It's not supposed to be like that. Not supposed to be like that at
   all."

   Since the Big Board's introduction in 1984, it has served as the
   ranking medium for all top NFL draft picks. In its entire 23-year
   history, the Board has never before been knocked completely all the
   way over.

   "This is much worse than the 1995 'bobble' of the Big Board that saw
   five players' names from the mid-first round come unpinned and flutter
   to Mel Kiper's floor," said Buffalo Bills general manager Marv Levy,
   who was woken by aides and told of the knock-over only minutes after
   it occurred.  "We weren't sure whether we were supposed to draft
   Warren Sapp, Ruben Brown, Mark Fields, or Ellis Johnson. In the end,
   we had to guess, and Sapp went to Tampa Bay. I don't want this to
   happen again, to anyone."

   Commissioner Roger Goodell issued a call for calm from an NFL office
   besieged by frantic phone calls from journalists, scouts, teams' front
   offices, and the agents of almost every player on the board, all of
   whom insist that their client was listed toward the Big Board's top.

   "While this is a huge setback for football, we will still be holding
   the draft in an orderly fashion," Goodell said. "We may have to delay
   it for a number of weeks, but one way or another, we will work with
   Mr. Kiper to recover as much information as possible related to player
   rankings. The full resources of the NFL are, as usual, at Mr. Kiper's
   disposal."

   Meanwhile, Goodell says he has requested that ESPN search through
   recent footage to see if the intact Big Board can be seen in the
   background of any shots or if Kiper appeared on the network discussing
   draft rankings at any time.

   "We're in bad shape, but all is not completely lost," said Kiper,
   shuffling through the stack of rumpled index cards he managed to
   salvage from the area of his floor where the board fell. "I'm
   reasonably sure that this 'Calvin Johnson' fellow was up near the top,
   for instance. He's a wide receiver, though, and I'm not sure I'd rank
   a wide receiver first. And there's a young man named Okoye here whose
   name I remember... 19 years old, though, can that be right? Damn it,
   how could I do something so stupid?"

   Kiper added that he would be working around the clock to restore order
   to the Big Board "up until the eve of the draft, if necessary," and
   hopes that some clue to the Board's former state can be found in his
   recently published draft guide, the 120-page Mel Kiper Jr's 2007 NFL
   Draft Report.

   NFL Meteorologists

   NEW YORK--Steaming black-guy heads, the traditional sign of
   approaching winter for generations of football fans, have been
   occurring later in the season with every passing year, a fact that may
   be evidence of a climatic change with long-term effects on football
   itself, top scientists in the meteorological department of the
   National Football League said in a study released Monday.

   "The phenomenon of weather-related African-American supracranial
   vaporous emission, or 'Steaming Black-Guy Heads,' as it is
   colloquially known, occurs when cold dry winter  air comes into
   contact with hot, humid, shaven heads of football players, causing
   their personal water vapor to condense and rise on a column of heated
   air," the statement read in part. "It is then observed by network
   cameramen, who overwhelmingly choose to film African-American players
   due to the dramatic contrasts that result--especially when the player
   in question is backlit--and beamed to millions of households during
   time-outs, replay reviews, and other stoppages of play. The viewers
   then realize that winter has come to America."

   "However, film review reveals that steaming black-guy heads, which
   during the 1970s were commonplace in mid-September, have in recent
   years not been sighted until the weeks after Thanksgiving," the
   statement continued. "Although further study is definitely called for,
   we conclude that the pronounced trend for steaming black-guy heads to
   occur progressively later every year--coupled with the phenomenon of
   giant triangles of ass-sweat persisting well into November--is a
   possible indication of a slowly warming climate across the entire
   NFL."

   League commissioner Roger Goodell was not available for comment,
   saying that, although early-season instances of steaming black-guy
   heads were obviously preferable, the NFL had no official stance on
   climate change, global warming, or other meteorological phenomena that
   did not directly affect the scheduling or outcome of games.

   Reaction among coaches and players has been mixed.

   "When I came into the league with Tampa Bay, steaming black-guy heads
   were everywhere in October," said longtime NFL veteran and current
   Carolina Panthers quarterback Vinny Testaverde. "The Bucs were in the
   NFC Central back then, and we played in Chicago and Green Bay a lot,
   and to me, they always meant Halloween was coming. But these days, the
   rookies think of them as the first sign of Christmas. You can't tell
   me that's not global warming."

   "Early on in my career, I saw them a lot, even in September," said
   Packers quarterback Brett Favre, who still has fond memories of the
   steaming heads of such Packer greats as Sterling Sharpe, LeRoy Butler,
   and Reggie White. "But this year we only started getting them just
   this week, and it's December already. Listen, I don't know anything
   about climate change, but I'd hate to see my daughters grow up in a
   world where steaming black-guy heads are just something you see on
   ESPN Classic."

   NFL climatologist Lee Orfordson, one of the authors of the report,
   advised caution among those worried about the dwindling instances of
   steaming black-guy heads around the league.

   "Remember that there are more domed stadiums now, that Northern-tier
   teams are being scheduled for more away games in Southern-tier cities
   during the winter months, and above all, that steaming black-guy heads
   are a single, if dramatic, phenomenon," Orfordson said. "There are
   plenty of numbers still to crunch here before we can say the steaming
   black-guy head has gone the way of the dodo."

   Still, for generations of fans for whom steaming black-guy heads were
   an important symbol of seasonal change, the announcement has inspired
   a definite feeling of foreboding.

   "I was the very first of the steaming black-guy heads," said former
   Raider defensive end Otis "The Grandfather Of All Steaming Black-Guy
   Heads" Sistrunk, whose own vigorously steaming head was noted by ABC
   color man Alex Karras in the early autumn of 1974 and began a
   winter-onset sideline-camera tradition that continues to this day.
   "And I'm very, very proud of that. I just hope I don't live to see the
   last."


   NEW YORK--Flanked by Food Network president Brooke Johnson and
   cooking-show host Rachael Ray, Commissioner Gary Bettman announced
   yesterday that the NHL has opted out of its contract with the Versus
   cable channel (formerly the Outdoor Life Network) and has reached a
   long-term broadcasting deal with the Food Network starting in the
   2007-08 season.
   [4]Enlarge Image NHL And Food Network 

   "In all my years as commissioner, I have learned that our diverse
   group of fans and players all enjoy food of some sort. Italian,
   French, barbecue, quick-and-easy 30-minute meals--you name it, one or
   more of them eat it," said Bettman, adding that Iron Chef French host
   Hiroyuki Sakai will join play-by-play announcer Mike "Doc" Emrick and
   analyst Brian Engblom to form a new lead announcing team for all Food
   Network games. "This partnership has been a long time coming. If the
   Food Network would have been around in 1991, we would have left ESPN
   in a heartbeat."

   "It's great to know we will be on television next year," Bettman
   added, smiling as the NHL's new studio team, consisting of Rachael Ray
   as head hockey anchor and Bill Clement as game analyst, collaborated
   in an attempt to equate the offsides penalty to "zesting up" a
   pan-seared T-bone steak. "Thanks, Food Network."

   Though Bettman maintained that the Food Network was always the
   league's first choice, sources close to the commissioner confirmed
   that the NHL also considered broadcasting games on E!, the Golf
   Channel, and Cartoon Network before eventually deciding to go with the
   network offering the best combination of financial incentives and
   airtime.

   "We also thought the lead-in programs on Versus, especially those that
   focused on bull-riding, bass fishing, and violent contact sports, were
   not entirely compatible with the image of the league," Bettman said.
   "Now, hockey games will follow Emeril Live, Feasting On Asphalt, and
   The Hungry Detective, which, as you can plainly see, are a better fit.
   Also, we are paying the Food Network much less money to broadcast our
   games."

   According to terms of the deal, the Food Network will schedule
   broadcasts of over 50 full-length hockey games and will carry both the
   Eastern and Western Conference Semi-Finals, as well as Games 4 through
   7 of the Stanley Cup Finals. The only exception, Bettman said, would
   be made for Rachael Ray, who appears on television roughly three times
   more than the NHL. In the case of Ray experiencing a scheduling
   conflict, hockey games will be postponed and rescheduled at Ray's
   convenience.

   "We liked the idea of having hockey because it has two halftimes,"
   said Food Network president Johnson, adding that the first game on the
   channel will feature the ceremonial dropping of an inaugural homemade
   Italian meatball at center ice by honorary referee Mario Batali. "Our
   debut coverage will include a halftime show hosted by Giada De
   Laurentiis, who will recap the game's events while guiding you through
   the preparation of Sicilian penne with swordfish and eggplant. Or, if
   you are in the mood for something more immediate, on-ice reporter
   Paula Deen will spend timeouts showing you certain tactics to enhance
   the flavor of your traditional southwestern dip."

   Though she stated that she didn't want to give anything away, Johnson
   said that the network's first hockey-related profile will focus on
   Sidney Crosby eating veal and creamed spinach prepared by Roker On The
   Road host Al Roker. Other hockey players now contractually obligated
   to make appearances on shows include Chris Drury on Food 911, Martin
   Brodeur on Calorie Commando, and Alexander Ovechkin on Dinner:
   Impossible.

   The new broadcasting deal has some sportswriters saying the move will
   make hockey even more irrelevant, while others believe this is a clear
   step up for the league.

   "I watch the Food Network far more than I watch hockey, and I think
   most sports fans feel the same way," said Boston Globe sports
   columnist Bob Ryan. "My favorite program is Food Nation With Bobby
   Flay. So I'll definitely watch that, and then maybe stick around to
   watch part of a period if the Bruins are playing. Everybody wins
   here."


   PARIS--A small but enthusiastic crowd of several dozen was on hand at
   the Tour de France's finish line on the Avenue des Champs-lyses
   Tuesday to applaud the efforts of the 28 cyclists who completed the
   grueling 20-stage, 2,208.3-mile race without the aid of
   performance-enhancing drugs.
   [4]Enlarge Image Non Doping 

   Great Britain's Bradley Wiggins finished the final 56km time trial in
   a respectable and drug-free 4 hours and 38 minutes.

   Finland's Piet Kvistik, a domestique with the Crdit Mondial team, was
   this year's highest-finishing non-doping rider (142nd overall).
   Kvistik claimed the maillot propre, the blue jersey worn by the
   highest-placed "clean" rider, on the ninth stage of the race when the
   six riders who had previously worn it tested positive for EPO,
   elevated levels of testosterone, and blood-packing.

   "This is a very, very proud day for me," said the 115-pound Kvistik,
   who lost 45% of his body mass during the event, toppled from his
   saddle moments after finishing, and had to be administered oxygen, fed
   intravenously, and injected with adrenaline by attending medical
   personnel. "They say it is physically impossible to ride all of the
   Tour without drugs, but we prove them wrong this day."

   "What day is it, anyway?" asked Kvistik, his eyes rolling wildly in
   his head. "I can no longer tell."

   Kvistik's overall time for the Tour was 571 hours, 22 minutes, and 33
   seconds, beating by over an hour the previous record for a
   non-enhanced rider, set by Albrect Part during 1923's infamous
   ether-and-morphine-shortened race. Kvistik finished a mere 480 hours
   behind Alberto Contador, the overall winner, making 2007's margin
   between doping and non-doping riders the closest in history.

   "It became most difficult for us on the 7th stage, which was almost
   200 kilometers and the first stage through the mountains," Kvistik
   said while accepting the non-doping victor's 100-franc check from his
   stretcher. "Not only did the excruciating pain and weakness in my legs
   make it difficult to walk my bike on the steeper stretches, it was
   mentally very hard to know that half the other clean riders were dead
   or dying. Also, the other 141 riders finished the Tour in Paris that
   morning, which made it all that much harder."

   "It's rather a shame that the Tour's 'clean' riders, or 'lanternes
   naturelles' as the fans call them, receive so little attention, for
   their monumental achievement," said cycling commentator Phil Liggett,
   reporting on the non-doping riders' finish for Versus-2, the
   little-sister network to Versus, who carried the main Tour de France
   coverage. "It's nearly impossible to compete in the full Tour while
   shot full of human growth hormone, erythropoietin, testosterone,
   glucocorticosteroids, synthetic testosterone, anabolic steroids, horse
   testosterone, amphetamines, and one's own pre-packed oxygen-rich red
   blood cells. To do it on water and bananas is almost heroic, no matter
   what one's time is."

   While Kvistik's achievement is being celebrated by cycling insiders,
   critics of the Tour de France maintain that not enough is being done
   to combat the use of performance-enhancing substances in cycling's
   premier event.

   "Nonsense--pure nonsense," said Tour general director Christian
   Prudhomme, who was vacationing in Switzerland as Kvistik crossed the
   finish line. "We have done everything we could imagine, both in terms
   of prize money and other incentives, to promote riders who compete
   without pharmaceutical aid. But we simply do not have the resources,
   nor the viewers the interest, to televise the entire two months it
   takes for a normal, unadulterated human to circumnavigate an entire
   nation on a bicycle."

   Kvistik remains in critical condition at the Hpital
   Neuilly-sur-Seine, where he was placed in a medically induced coma to
   aid his recovery from exhaustion, malnutrition, and loss of bone
   density. Attending physicians say he is not expected to return to
   cycling.


   YOUR SCHOOL--No one at your new college could give even two shits
   about the girlfriend you left back home, a special Onion investigation
   confirmed Monday.
   [4]Enlarge Image students 

   Students talking about things much more interesting than some girl you
   miss.

   "That guy [you] acts like he's the only person in history to be
   separated from his high school girlfriend after leaving for college,"
   said your roommate, who, after examining a photo prominently displayed
   on your dorm-room desk, described your girlfriend as being "not even
   that hot." "I'm sorry, but some of us are trying to actually start the
   next chapter of our lives here in college, so forgive me if I am not
   exactly on the edge of my seat about the unfolding drama of somebody's
   high school love."

   Since relocating to your new home in the dorms earlier this month,
   sources report, you have gone on and on about your 17-year-old
   girlfriend at every possible opportunity. Worse, you have done so
   without apparent regard for the fact that your utterly clichd
   scenario could not be less interesting to your fellow students, most
   of whom have spent their time hooking up with each other instead of
   mooning over some boring high school chick they're probably never
   going to see again after the next few weeks.
     Sources No Girl

   Your girlfriend

   Students interviewed by The Onion confirmed no one cares that "this is
   the first time [you've] tried to make a serious go of a long-distance
   relationship," that "[your girlfriend] is totally worth it because
   she's the most special person [you've] ever known," or about any of
   the other things you keep going on about to anyone within earshot.

   When asked to rate their interest level in your high school
   girlfriend, an overwhelming 93 percent of your fellow students
   responded "zero." Furthermore, when asked to list topics they would
   rather pay attention to than your girlfriend, they cited subjects
   ranging from dorm-safety procedures to cafeteria meal-card
   distribution policy to Earth Science 101.

   According to the campus-wide survey, interest was similarly
   nonexistent in several other areas of your life, including the fact
   that you were the editor of your high school yearbook, that you really
   miss that one cool restaurant you used to hang out at in your
   hometown, and that some high school buddy of yours may be coming up
   for a visit in a few weeks if he can get his father to lend him his
   car.

   Your girlfriend cemented her No.1 ranking as the least interesting
   subject on campus, however,  when you became highly emotional about
   her at a party last Saturday after having what eyewitnesses said was
   "only like, maybe two beers."

   "[You] even told this one girl who obviously wasn't hitting on [you]
   that [you were] taken, and then proceeded to talk her ear off about
   how great [your] girlfriend is," said one of your floormates, who
   wished to remain anonymous for fear of being trapped in another dull
   conversation about your girlfriend. "What a [total pussy]."

   Furthermore, dorm insiders claimed that everyone is glad you won't be
   able to make it to the big get-to-know-each-other floor outing at the
   Cheesecake Factory this Thursday night at 8 p.m., as that is your
   scheduled chat time with whatever-her-stupid-name is.

   Your girlfriend could not be reached for comment, as she was busy
   French-kissing some high school dude as of press time.


   PYONGYANG, NORTH KOREA--A press release issued by the state-run Korean
   Central News Agency Monday confirmed that the Oct. 9 underground
   nuclear test in North Korea's Yanggang province successfully exploded
   the communist nation's total gross domestic product for the past four
   decades.
   [4]Enlarge Image North Korea 

   The economic-blast radius of the test

   "This is a grand day for the Democratic Peoples Republic Of Korea,
   whose citizens have sacrificed their wages, their food, and their
   lives so that our great nation could test a nuclear weapon thousands
   of feet beneath our own soil," read an excerpt from the statement.
   "Now the rest of the world must stand up and take notice that the
   DPRK, too, is capable of decimating years of its wealth at any given
   moment."

   North Korea's announcement would appear to support the CIA's
   intelligence information on the blast. According to the CIA, over 500
   tons of compressed purchasing power, the equivalent of 40 years of
   goods and services produced by the impoverished country, vaporized in
   560 billionths of one second. The device consumed 15 years of peasant
   wages' worth of uranium, two decades of agricultural- and
   fishery-export profits' worth for its above-ground emplacement tower,
   and the lifetime earnings of the entire workforce of the Kilchu
   fish-canning factory for tungsten/carbide-steel bomb casings.

   "A nuclear device that size explodes with the force of 10 to 15 tons
   of TNT, or a moderately sized economic boom," said Ronald Shimokawa, a
   physicist at Los Alamos National Laboratory. "The detonation most
   likely sent the burning, liquified remains of North Korea's economy
   deep into the Earth's core."

   Across the country, North Korean citizens cheered wildly after
   learning their nation had violently transformed the equivalent of 2.3
   billion hot meals, 11 million housing units, and 1,700 hospitals into
   their component atoms. Others celebrated by gleaning recently
   harvested rice paddies for leftover grains.
     North Korea Map R

   North Korea

   "This fraction-of-a-second blast is what I, and my parents before me,
   have given up everything to achieve," said tractor driver Chin
   Lee-Park, whose machine was cannibalized for bomb derrick parts in
   1997.

   "It is truly a great day for North Korea," added Lee-Park, who then
   died due to a combination of malnutrition and tuberculosis.

   The North Korean government has long been suspected of building up a
   clandestine stockpile of capital, evidenced by their tendency to shut
   down national programs that provide its citizens with food, clothing,
   medicine, shelter, transportation, water, sanitation, education,
   living wages, and means of communication. A North Korean diplomat
   defended the decision, saying that citizens "need to make certain
   sacrifices so their country can afford the basic human right of
   national security."

   International suspicions intensified earlier this month, when
   satellite surveillance revealed that Kilchu farmers had burned the
   nation's last remaining wheat field to make room for the test site,
   that peasant shacks were being dismantled to provide the necessary
   materials to construct a cradle in which the bomb could be lowered
   into the ground, and that thousands of starving, near-naked
   Sangpyong-ri residents were digging an 800-meter vertical underground
   shaft with wooden rice spoons. In addition, an estimated 75 percent of
   North Korea's metallurgical wealth and gypsum stockpiles were
   repurposed for use as stemming materials to backfill the test site's
   hole prior to detonation.

   With the test, North Korea joins an exclusive group of nations that
   spends a huge percentage of their GDP on nuclear weapons programs.

   Yet, despite North Korea's claim that it will proceed with further
   nuclear testing, the international community is skeptical of whether
   it has the means to do so, in wake of news over the weekend that
   leader Kim Jong-Il has authorized the use of the remaining three
   percent of North Korea's GDP for the construction of six monuments
   bearing his likeness.

   Kevin Everett

   HOUSTON--Less than a month after Buffalo Bills tight end Kevin Everett
   suffered a life-threatening dislocation and fracture of his cervical
   spine that was predicted to leave him with permanent neurological
   damage, enthusiastic National Football League physicians attending him
   at Houston's Memorial Hermann hospital have announced that Everett
   will not only make a full recovery from injury, but will most likely
   gain the power of flight and soar out of the hospital under his own
   power.

   "What we're seeing in Kevin's case is proof that the serious-injury
   recovery rate in pro football is nowhere near as serious as people
   have come to believe," Dr. Robert Homburg, a neurosurgeon assigned to
   Everett's case by the National Football League, said while pointing at
   the wings he had drawn on Everett's spinal X-rays. "Not only will
   Kevin be able to walk out of the hospital, he actually won't have to,
   as he will heal so completely that he will be better than he was
   before and will almost certainly be able to fly out unassisted."

   "I don't think I'd be exaggerating Kevin's prognosis if I said we're
   looking at a 200% recovery here," Homburg added.

   Just days ago, physician Teodoro Castillo, Everett's original
   physician, said the injury was "extremely severe" but that healing was
   progressing surprisingly well, pointing to Everett's ability to sit up
   without difficulty and even move his right arm slightly as evidence
   that he might someday walk without difficulty. Upon being told of
   Homburg's claims, Castillo said the recovery would be a "staged
   process of indeterminate length" and that flying was almost certainly
   out of the question.

   "While it's true I have treated few players with Kevin's level of
   physical conditioning and mental resilience, I don't think it's fair
   for the NFL's doctor to tell him that he'll be able to fly," Castillo
   said Wednesday. "First of all, the trauma to his spinal cord was so
   extreme that we had to inject chilled saline into his body to induce
   healing. Second, no matter what Dr. Homburg says, people cannot just
   grow wings and fly, period, and to tell Kevin that is cruel. He
   probably won't even play football again."

   Dr. Homburg said that, while he appreciated Castillo's cautious
   approach, he was only in partial agreement with his colleague.

   "Sadly, I'm afraid it's true that Kevin will never play football
   again--the league cannot afford to give the Bills the sort of unfair
   competitive advantage a flying tight end would offer them," Homburg
   said. "It's a lot like how Steve Young and Troy Aikman had to retire
   when their concussions gave them telekinesis and the power to stop
   time. Still, for Castillo to just dismiss the idea of Kevin's
   more-than-complete recovery out of hand is cynical and unprofessional.
   Like many injury-related issues, while it may be based on sound
   medical practices, it goes against everything the NFL is about."

   "Also, I should make it clear that I'm not saying Kevin will actually
   'just grow wings and fly,'" he added. "It could be from magic, a rare
   form of spinal helicopter blades, or small jet boosters emerging from
   his feet. We have to keep an open mind about this."

   Reactions to the news from around the league were mixed, with the
   NFL's front office sending Everett and Homburg their congratulations
   on his full recovery; players' union executive director Gene Upshaw
   saying that any further medical complications in Everett's case would
   be interpreted as the result of improper flight procedures and would
   result in the cancellation of his NFLPA benefits and pension, if any;
   and Everett's fellow Buffalo Bills players responding with a stunned
   silence born of disbelief and, presumably, joy.

   For his part, Everett is determined to stay positive.

   "I'm just taking things one day at a time," Everett said from his
   hospital bed, where he is preparing to begin physical therapy and
   doing his best to ignore the multiple news reports about his injury.
   "I heard that some league doctor had said some good things about me,
   and I guess that's nice. I'll walk out of this place, just you watch.
   But just between you and me, sometimes I think those NFL medical guys
   are a bunch of goddamn liars."


   GREENWOOD, IN--Sitting in a quiet downtown diner, local hospital
   administrator Philip Meyer looks as normal and well-adjusted as can
   be. Yet, there's more to this 27-year-old than first meets the eye:
   Meyer has recently finished reading a book.
   [4]Enlarge Image Eccentric 

   Even outdoors, Meyer can't seem to think of anything better to do than
   flip through some American classic.

   Yes, the whole thing.

   "It was great," said the peculiar Indiana native, who, despite owning
   a television set and having an active social life, read every single
   page of To Kill a Mockingbird by Harper Lee. "Especially the way
   things came together for Scout in the end. Very good."

   Meyer, who never once jumped ahead to see what would happen and
   avoided skimming large passages of text in search of pictures, first
   began his oddball feat a week ago. Three days later, the eccentric
   Midwesterner was still at it, completing chapter after chapter,
   seemingly of his own free will.

   "The whole thing was really engrossing," said Meyer, referring not to
   a movie, video game, or competitive sports match, but rather a
   full-length, 288-page novel filled entirely with words. "There were
   days when I had a hard time putting it down."

   Even more bizarre, Meyer is believed to have done most of his reading
   during his spare time--time when the outwardly healthy and stable
   resident could have literally been doing anything else, be it
   aimlessly surfing the Internet, taking a nap, or simply just staring
   at his bedroom wall.

   "It'd be nice to read it again at some point," Meyer continued, as if
   that were a perfectly natural thing to say.

   While it's difficult to imagine what compelled Meyer to read more than
   just the back cover of To Kill a Mockingbird, friends and family
   members claim the strange behavior goes all the way back to his
   childhood.

   "I remember when Phil was a little kid, instead of picking up a book,
   getting bored, and then throwing it at his sister, he'd actually sit
   down and read the whole thing," said mother Susan Meyer, who declared
   she has long given up trying to explain her son's unusual hobby. "At
   the time, we thought it was just a phase he was going through. I guess
   we were wrong."

   Over the years, Meyer has read dozens of books from beginning to end,
   regardless of whether he was forced to do so by a professor in school
   or whether a film version of the reading material already existed.
   According to girlfriend Jessica Kohler, he even uses a special
   cardboard marking device so that he can keep track of where he has
   stopped reading and later return to that exact same place.

   "I used to find Phil's reading kind of charming because I had never
   really met anyone who read outside of a waiting room," Kohler said.
   "But more and more, it just feels odd, you know? He can't even go to
   the beach without bringing one of his books along."

   According to behavioral psychologist Dr. Elizabeth Schulz, Meyer's
   reading of entire books is abnormal and may be indicative of a more
   serious obsession with reading.

   "Instead of just zoning out during a bus ride or spending hour after
   hour watching YouTube videos at night, Mr. Meyer, unlike most healthy
   males, looks to books for gratification," Schulz said. "Really, it's a
   classic case of deviant behavior."

   "At least, that's what it seems like from what little I've skimmed on
   the topic," she added.

   As bizarre as it may seem, Meyer isn't alone. Once a month, he and
   several other Greenwood residents reportedly gather at night not only
   to read books all the way through, but also to discuss them at length.

   "I don't know, it's like this weird 'book club' they're all a part
   of," said Brian Cummings, a longtime coworker and friend of Meyer's.
   "Seriously, what a bunch of freaks."


   LOS ANGELES--Suspended Tennessee Titans cornerback Adam "Pac-Man"
   Jones called a press conference Tuesday in order to emphasize that he
   will be nowhere near a possibly fatal stabbing that will occur during
   a fight involving several members of his entourage and the bartender
   at an L.A.-area strip club this coming Friday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Pacman Jones 

   "I just want people to know that I'm not going to be present at
   Shaker's, the club where possibly about to be deceased chump-ass
   bartender Darrent Wilson has been known to exchange harsh language and
   threats with my known associates, including kicking me and my people
   out of his establishment," said Jones, who is also currently being
   questioned by police concerning a recent shooting at an Atlanta strip
   club and is currently on suspension from the NFL following a melee and
   shooting in February at a Las Vegas strip club. "I am sorry for what
   is about to happen to this man, who will be in the wrong place at the
   wrong time, but it will have had nothing to do with me."

   Jones also took the opportunity to appeal once more to the NFL for
   leniency in a case of what he called "bad luck."

   "I will be going to bed at midnight on Friday anyway, and the
   gentleman in question will not be knifed until about 3 a.m.," Jones
   added. "And about Wednesday I'm deciding to give up strip clubs
   anyway, since bad stuff can happen there, especially when employees
   act unreasonable. Just because I know the guys who will be there when
   this happens doesn't necessarily mean I knew it was going to happen."

   The fight, which sources close to Jones say will apparently start as
   an argument over a woman, will involve Wilson and at least three
   as-yet unidentified members of Jones' group, although witnesses will
   not be able to place Jones at the scene. When contacted about the
   incident, Jones plans to promise to cooperate with authorities in
   their investigation and pray for Wilson's speedy recovery, if the
   bartender is alive at the time.

   Jones stressed that no charges have yet been filed against him, saying
   that, although unfortunate, anticipation of the stabbing was "blowing
   the incident all out of proportion."

   "This Saturday will mark my sixth arrest, or possibly seventh. I can't
   tell the future," Jones said, shaking his head in apparent anger. "Yet
   I won't get charged this time, either. They'll just be persecuting me
   for the stabbing that's going to happen because of the other stuff
   that already happened. Is that fair? I don't think that when Mr. Smart
   Mouth Darrent Wilson gets stabbed it should affect my career like
   that."

   "You know that Darrent, the guy who's going to get tragically stabbed,
   has always had it in for me," Jones added. "By the time he gets put in
   the hospital or killed, he will have thrown me out of his club at
   least twice, and there's two days between now and the stabbing. I
   think he's going to use getting cut up as an excuse to get at my
   money, is what I think."

   Manny Arora, Jones' attorney, said that Jones was "genuinely sorry in
   advance" about the incident, but was not at liberty to answer
   questions regarding his relationship with the one to three men who
   will be seen fleeing the vicinity covered in blood. Jones refused to
   confirm that the weapon to be used in the stabbing, a seven-inch
   pearl-handled hunting knife, will in fact be given to one of the men
   by Jones himself this coming Friday morning.

   NFL commissioner Roger Goodell has already scheduled a rare Sunday
   meeting with Jones, demanding Jones be in his office as soon as news
   of the incident becomes public.

   Patriots Stunned By Mere 17-Point Victory

   BOSTON--The Patriots organization is reeling this week following their
   narrow 34-17 victory over the lowly Browns, taking stock of their
   game-planning methods, philosophy, and indeed their entire season in
   the aftermath of a game in which they gained barely more than 500
   total yards, came within seconds of failing to cover the spread, and
   scored only twice as much as their opponent.

   "I think it's too early to call the season a failure," said visibly
   shaken Patriots head coach Bill Belichick, who was called into the
   office of owner Robert Kraft Monday morning and officially placed on
   probation in light of the insufficiently dominant victory. "I wish to
   extend my deepest apologies to the Patriots fans and ask them to
   continue supporting the players and the team. All the blame for
   Sunday's victory has to lie with me."

   Practices have been subdued and intense this week as players struggle
   to adjust offensive and defensive schemes that were unable to put the
   Browns away until late in the first quarter, produced a scant 4.4
   yards per rush--only 0.6 yards over the league average--and had to
   rely on two interceptions and a fumble recovery to finally go up by
   more than 10 points.

   "I have to take my share of the blame," said quarterback Tom Brady,
   who has already drawn moderate criticism this season for throwing only
   three touchdowns in each of the Patriots' games so far. "With two
   minutes left in the fourth quarter, I missed [tight end] Kyle [Brady]
   in the end zone. Any other greatest quarterback makes that touchdown
   pass and we win by 24--not outstanding, but at least it would have
   given us some pride in the locker room. As it was, we couldn't look
   each other in the eye."

   Although Belichick has refused to discuss personnel moves, Patriots
   insiders say that benching Brady for next week's game against
   undefeated Dallas was a definite possibility. All-pro tight end Ben
   Watson, who only scored twice against the Browns and struggled to
   produce a 106-yard performance, will almost certainly lose his
   starting job. Backup running back Samuel Morris managed only 102 yards
   on 21 carries and is generally acknowledged to be finished in the NFL.
   And wideout Randy Moss, held to only 49 yards, is almost certain to be
   traded by next week.

   "It was probably my worst game as a pro," said linebacker Junior Seau,
   who was almost invisible for the whole game, only able to intercept a
   total of two Derek Anderson passes all game and none in the second
   half. "Not that I was alone out there. Randall [Gay] only recovered
   one fumble for a touchdown. And I hate to call out the other unit, but
   there were a couple of times when the offensive line almost gave up
   their fourth sack of the season."

   "I've tried so hard to build a culture of winning here, and this is
   the kind of win we get," Belichick said at a post-practice press
   conference Wednesday. "This team has so much wrong with it, it's hard
   to believe we've managed to only lose zero games."


   TERRE HAUTE, IN--Indianapolis Colts quarterback Peyton Manning
   interrupted an intrasquad scrimmage Tuesday for approximately 45
   minutes in order to show backup quarterback Jim Sorgi how to properly
   hold his clipboard.
   [4]Enlarge Image Peyton Manning 

   Manning demonstrates the proper form to use while holding the
   clipboard with one hand and using the headset during third-quarter
   second-and-long situations.

   "He's got to learn consistency if he's going to be the backup on this
   team, and that starts with the little things, like holding the
   clipboard with two hands," Manning told reporters following the
   practice. "When I see my backup holding the clipboard with the top
   portion clenched in his one hand and the bottom portion digging into
   his bicep, I see a quarterback taking a 'me-first' approach. That's
   unacceptable."

   "Holding the clipboard isn't about individual performance. It's about
   winning," added Manning, who later stated he was disappointed in Sorgi
   and that he thought the two were on the same page following a two-hour
   clipboard conversation he had with Sorgi during the Colts' voluntary
   spring practice. "I once thought that if Jim wanted to set himself
   apart, maybe he could wear his hat with a little extra curvature in
   the brim. But for now, I'd have to say he doesn't deserve that
   privilege."

   Manning claimed to have mentioned several previous
   clipboard-mishandling incidents to Sorgi prior to the on-field
   confrontation, including times when Sorgi held only the bottom-left
   corner of the clipboard "as if he didn't care if he dropped it"; when
   he caught Sorgi gripping the clipboard with two hands, but loosely and
   "as if he was just going through the motions"; and when he saw Sorgi
   standing on the sidelines trying to spin the clipboard on his index
   finger, an action Manning called disrespectful to both the team and
   the game of football.

   "I even caught him out of the corner of my eye letting the clipboard
   hang carelessly down by his thigh during our preseason game against
   the [Chicago] Bears," said Manning, adding that he had not said
   anything to Sorgi at the time because he wanted to give him a chance
   to rectify the problem on his own. "I almost burned a time-out, but
   that was on the same day he took my advice to affix an 18-inch length
   of clean white cord to the clipboard in order to keep better track of
   his writing utensil, so I let it slide. Baby steps, after all."

   Manning said he began to suspect that Sorgi had reverted to a careless
   and lackadaisical state of mind upon seeing Sorgi gripping the
   clipboard at the top part of its clamping mechanism, which Manning
   said could have ultimately led to the application of enough pressure
   to allow the documents held by the clipboard to escape, and possibly
   even be blown towards the opposing sideline.

   "Look--if he messes up like that and the other team has all of our
   offensive schemes, then we don't repeat as [Super Bowl] champions,"
   Manning said. "It's that simple. True, I've never had to hold that
   clipboard, and I never plan to. Jim Sorgi is going to be holding that
   clipboard for the rest of my career, so it's essential he becomes a
   pro at it."

   "We're only as strong as our weakest link," Manning added. "Jim Sorgi
   had best remember that."

   Though Sorgi admitted to violating Manning's clipboard-holding policy,
   he said a lack of communication, not a lack of commitment, was really
   to blame.

   "Sometimes Peyton and I just aren't always on the same wavelength,"
   Sorgi told reporters after Manning left the facility. "It gets really
   confusing. Basically, Peyton likes to give me three different
   clipboard-holding options during specific game situations, signaling
   them to me before the snap. At any given time during a game, he could
   scream at me to change my grip to, say, ten-and-two instead of
   six-and-four, and naturally, there will be times I don't hear him
   completely."

   "I just wish he would stick to his initial clipboard-holding plan--two
   hands at three and nine," Sorgi said. "It would make things easier on
   all of us."

   Upon being told of Sorgi's comments, Manning commented that Sorgi's
   "prima donna attitude is the reason he's not allowed to run
   kneel-downs during the regular season."

   Colts head coach Tony Dungy claimed he was unaware of any problem with
   his quarterbacks and said he would be taking more of a hands-off
   approach this season, allowing Manning to do the majority, if not all,
   of the coaching.


   PARAMUS, NJ--With students set to arrive in about three weeks,
   teachers at Washington Street Elementary School were scrambling Monday
   to deal with a new round of budget cuts that slashed funding for the
   pipe cleaners and googly eyes they say are the cornerstone of a
   humanities-based education.
   [4]Enlarge Image Pipe Cleaners 

   Pipe cleaners have been used as a form of artistic expression for
   generations.

   "We are closing the door on our children's creativity," said Melinda
   Jarvis, a first-grade teacher who has used bendy and twisty materials
   in her art lessons for more than 15 years. "Without pipe cleaners,
   these kids will be totally unable to transform everyday objects into
   things with skinny arms and legs. We'll just have a bunch of egg
   cartons sitting around. How is that going to teach them anything about
   the rich artistic traditions that have shaped our civilization for
   millennia?"

   Jarvis, who plans to lead an Indian-style sit-in on the first day of
   school to protest the cuts, is only one of thousands of educators
   across the country to face dramatic drops in their arts budgets over
   the past several years. In Boca Raton, FL, there were reports of up to
   16 kindergartners sharing the same pine cone. More than half of Iowa's
   elementary school students gave their mothers crumpled-up Kleenex
   wrappers taped to tongue depressors as Valentine's Day "roses" last
   year. And a school in Oxnard, CA was reduced to having students draw
   crude eyeballs on scraps of construction paper handed down from
   third-grade classes.
   [5]Enlarge Image Pipe Cleaners 

   A petition decrying the cuts drafted and signed by concerned
   third-graders in Ida Rosen's class in Marquette, MI.

   Bergen County superintendent of schools Jim Eckford said his office
   was forced to make some very difficult decisions, and that Washington
   Street Elementary School students and teachers alike would simply have
   to adjust to the new reality this fall.

   "I would love nothing more than to see every student be able to make
   as many Santa Clauses with big, bushy beards as their hearts desire,"
   Eckford said. "But these are tough times, and the fact of the matter
   is, cotton balls don't grow on trees."

   In light of the budget tightening, Eckford suggested teachers develop
   creative outlets for their children that involve pebbles or
   paper-towel rolls, or somehow combine art class with lunch period.

   Local parents have joined the chorus of opponents, pointing to the
   need to stay competitive with better-funded private schools in which
   students have unlimited access to pipe cleaners and have been known to
   glue googly eyes to other googly eyes.

   "Cutting pipe cleaners and googly eyes is simply going to lead to the
   elimination of more items from school budgets, like Popsicle sticks
   and yarn," said Geraldine Mailer, president of the Washington Street
   Elementary School PTA and a mother of four. "To write out one's name,
   or the name of one's mommy, by pasting dried macaroni to colored paper
   is to illuminate the human soul. We're going to wind up raising a
   generation of mindless conformists."

   Mailer said that the deprivation could lead to future problems,
   including low self-esteem, juvenile delinquency, and a chronic
   inability to create homemade cards and scrapbooks.

   "If we're going to deny our children access to diverse forms of mixed
   media, we may as well just shove a piece of paper in front of them,
   stick a pencil in their hands, and tell them to have at it," Mailer
   said. "But is that what we want for our kids? Is that what we want for
   art?"


   CHICAGO--Music, a mode of creative expression consisting of sound and
   silence expressed through time, was given a 6.8 out of 10 rating in an
   review published Monday on Pitchfork Media, a well-known
   music-criticism website.
     Pitchfork Gives Logo

   According to the review, authored by Pitchfork editor in chief Ryan
   Schreiber, the popular medium that predates the written word shows
   promise but nonetheless "leaves the listener wanting more."

   "Music's first offering, an eclectic, disparate, but mostly functional
   compendium of influences from 5000 B.C. to present day, hints that
   this trend's time may not only have fully arrived, but is already on
   the wane," Schreiber wrote. "If music has any chance of keeping our
   interest, it's going to have to move beyond the same palatable but
   predictable notes, meters, melodies, tonalities, atonalities, timbres,
   and harmonies."

   Schreiber's semi-favorable review, which begins in earnest after a
   six-paragraph preamble comprising a long list of baroquely rendered,
   seemingly unrelated anecdotes peppered with obscure references,
   summarizes music as a "solid but uninspired effort."

   "Coming in at an exhausting 7,000 years long, music is weighed down by
   a few too many mid- tempo tunes, most notably 'Liebestrume No. 3 in A
   flat' by Franz Liszt and 'Closing Time' by '90s alt-rock group
   Semisonic," Schreiber wrote. "In the end, though music can be
   brilliant at times, the whole medium comes off as derivative of
   Pavement."

   While Schreiber concedes that music is still "trying to find its
   aesthetic," he also claims the form has not yet lived up to the lavish
   praise heaped on it by pop culture journalist Chuck Klosterman and
   19th-century French romantic composer and critic Hector Berlioz, among
   others.

   Schreiber concludes his critique by calling on music to develop a more
   cohesive sound in its future releases.

   "We can only hope that [music] will begin to grow with its fans over
   the next few millennia," Schreiber said. "If it can stick to what it
   does well, namely the song 'Peg' by Steely Dan, and Tuvan throat
   singing, then a sophomore effort will indeed be something to get
   excited about."

   The review has split the music community, with many decrying
   Pitchfork's lukewarm reception of music as a contrarian move designed
   to propel the publication's tastemaker status.

   "It's elitism for the sake of elitism," said Rolling Stone senior
   editor David Fricke, who refuted Pitchfork's middling rating,
   describing the entire art form as "transcendent." "I've been listening
   to music for over 30 years, and it's consistently some of the best
   stuff out there."

   Despite music's defenders, the Pitchfork review has made a deep
   impression on the thousands of music fans who slavishly follow the
   website's advice when it comes to enjoying things.

   "Music used to be great, but let's be honest, it's a 6.8 now at best,"
   said Los Angeles resident Lowell Radler, 23, who admitted that he
   just looked at the rating rather than reading the whole review. "I
   seriously might never listen to music again."

   Still, most analysts agreed that the impact of Pitchfork's scathing
   review of music will be dampened by the 2.4 rating it received from
   Pitchfork staff writer Dave Maher just moments after the initial
   critique was published online. Maher termed Schreiber's assessment of
   music "overwrought, masturbatory posturing intended to make insecure
   hipsters feel as if they're part of some imagined elite beau monde."


   CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND--In a resounding display of horsemanship,
   lancemanship, and puissance that marked both his first major
   tournament success and a great victory on the international stage for
   the British crown, the gallant English Prince William did mightily
   unseat Prince Willem- Alexander of the Netherlands in combat at the
   Cheltenham Jousts this Sunday week.
   [4]Enlarge Image Prince William 

   The valiant Prince William triumphant in victory.

   The prince, his aspect as always noble and his armour brightly agleam,
   did strike his gentleman-foe the Prince of Orange with a single
   shivering blow to the very center of his greatshield, all glory be to
   God, ensuring, as well, a victory in global currency exchange.

   "Alack! I am bested, and fall heavy to the ground, and must therefore
   renegotiate the terms of special exchange between our nations when
   managing debts that predate conversion to the new EU standard," quoth
   Willem-Alexander as he tumbled from his steed, acknowledging his
   opponent the better man and meeting his fate with honour. "In sooth, a
   rate of 1.75 euros to the pound is more than fair, with interest
   compounding from the date of this match forward, so mighty is the
   stroke that undoes me."
   [5]Enlarge Image Prince William jump 

   Magnanimous in victory, as befits the heir to the Throne of All
   England, Prince William did forsake the cries of bloodlust from the
   lower galleries, granting the Dutch prince the boon of his life and
   demanding in return only a 4.5 percent increase in durable-goods
   tariffs on imports from the Netherlands and her subject nations.

   "Hear me, O Britain!" exclaimed His Royal Highness, whose voice was
   heard to peal forth from the lists as thunder from great
   mountain-height, ringing in every corner of that green and pleasant
   land, as well as on BBC Two and internationally on ESPN, garnering a
   nod of approval from the Queen, who gazed on regally from the royal
   box. "This man hath proven himself worthy of our mercy. For to fall in
   joust before the Crown Prince of England--the very herald of God on
   Earth--is no shame; nor would I call foeman any prince who hath the
   strength to acknowledge Jesus as his Saviour and to hold inflation to
   a stunningly low 1.3 percent. Therefore I spare his life, and call my
   noble cousin mere cousin no more, but brother, in hopes our fair
   nations may find brotherhood indeed."

   And 'spite a fortnight full of tragic news that wicked Fate had split
   the comely pair, the noble Prince William did grant a victory nosegay
   to his former love, the beauteous Kate Middleton, who with wet and
   melancholy eye did the prince's gaze avoid, as befits a commoner.

   "Hail to the crown prince of our fair isles, hail!" said Herald-Royal
   Anthony the Blair, Grand Vizier of the Realm, Prime Minister of All
   Britain, and Officiary of the Games, upon presenting Prince William
   with the Cheltenham Tournament Virgin Atlantic Trophy. "For he has
   made the doughty enemy void his saddle, and hight him upon his very
   fud; and many a rude and glorious tale shall be of this day's deeds
   retold."

   "Such feats of brawn and bravery have we scarce beheld since Prince's
   father, Charles of Wales, did ride forth in errantry, and did in
   single combat meet, and unhorsing humiliate, sundry knights of the
   Falkland Islands," added Blair with a hearty heavenward thrust of his
   gauntled fist.

   Upon being relieved of his helm, breastplate, and greaves by his
   trusty squires the Minister of State for Trade and Her Majesty's
   Ambassador to the Netherlands, the prince did declare a feast day and
   order the roasting of a fatted ox. The beast was shared out in equal
   parts among all freedmen in attendance, and small beer and brown ale
   was given forth in full fair measure. A fine and merry bawd did last
   until the rising of Tuesday's sun brought forth the cock's cry,
   heralding once again a round of bold and robust trading on the London
   Stock Exchange, so well delighted and put at ease by the day's events
   Albion's investors were.

   Also late from the Netherlands came grave tidings that Prince
   Willem-Alexander hath suffered wounds diverse and mortal, and that he
   ails sick abed i'the Amsterdam Medical Center, where doctors are
   struggling with all their art against profuse hemmorhaging cerebral
   and abdominal.


   WASHINGTON--With more American military casualties in 2007 than any
   year since the war began, a bipartisan group of House representatives
   introduced a bill Monday that calls for nearly 4,000 U.S. soldiers who
   have been killed in Iraq to be brought back to life.
   [4]Enlarge Image Legislators 

   Cosponsors John Boehner, left, and Bruce Braley, middle, told
   reporters how the bill would make everything all better Tuesday.

   "These brave men and women gave their lives for our country," Rep.
   Wayne Gilchrest (R-MD), a cosponsor of the bill, told Congress
   yesterday. "The least we can do is give them back."

   Though most Democrats and Republicans remain deadlocked on the issue
   of a possible troop withdrawal, leaders on both sides have been able
   to agree that bringing thousands of soldiers back from the dead and
   returning them home to their families, alive and well, like nothing
   ever happened, is the "only honorable choice."

   "Our proposal would completely change the course of the conflict from
   hundreds of people dying every day to everyone suddenly being alive
   again," said Rep. Bruce Braley (D-IA), donning a "Support Our
   Troops--Bring 'Em Back From The Dead" ribbon. "This will not only
   improve morale at home and abroad, but will also make everything all
   better."

   "I think we can all agree that making everything all better would
   vastly improve the situation in Iraq," Braley added.

   The bill, H.R. 702, stipulates that immediately upon its passage into
   law, the 4,000 brave soldiers who have lost their lives in Iraq come
   marching triumphantly over the horizon, directly into the arms of
   their loved ones, looking the same as they did on the day they left
   home. Article II, Section 3 of the bill requires that each soldier be
   carrying one apple pie, to be consumed in full with family members as
   they sit around the dinner table and laugh and sing. A proviso in
   Article III states that everything will go back to the way it was
   before.
   [5]Enlarge Image Supporters 

   Supporters of the bill march in New York.

   The bill would also prohibit troops currently stationed in Iraq from
   ever dying.

   According to House minority leader John Boehner (R-OH), the measure,
   already long overdue, is the most effective way to ensure that the
   growing casualty rate in Iraq is instantly reversed and reduced to
   zero.

   "How much longer are we going to let these troops stay deceased? Two
   years? Three years? Forever?" Boehner said. "If we allow this to
   happen, then the insurgents have already won."

   Added Boehner: "Thousands have made the ultimate sacrifice. Let's make
   sure they are repaid for that sacrifice in kind."

   Though the bill enjoys broad support, a number of politicians have
   claimed the move is shortsighted and could destabilize the region if
   the reanimated bodies of the U.S. military returned to the living
   world as undead ghouls devoid of consciousness. Braley, however,
   dismissed such fears.

   "I assure the American people that the reborn troops will appear just
   as alive and vital as they did mere moments before they were killed.
   In no way will they be an unholy abomination of undead flesh," Braley
   said.

   Scheduled to be put to a vote in December, the bill has endured
   numerous setbacks, including fierce debate over which soldier should
   be brought back to life first, a core of Republicans who say they will
   only vote yes on the condition that the reanimated troops are
   immediately redeployed to Iraq, and Sen. Ted Stevens' (R-AK) multiple
   attempts to tack a rider onto the bill that would bring back his dead
   wife.

   Though the bill is expected to pass the House, some Senators claim
   suddenly bringing back thousands of deceased Americans might send the
   wrong message to America's enemies.

   "The tide in Iraq is turning," Sen. Joseph Lieberman (ID-CT) said.
   "American men and women dying in droves has worked thus far--it is not
   time to abandon this strategy."

   Congress is also expected to begin drafting legislation that would
   completely heal all 28,385 wounded U.S. soldiers. If passed into law,
   any troops who have lost limbs to amputation, infection, or car-bomb
   explosions can expect their arms and legs to grow back within six
   months. In addition, the bill would guarantee that those suffering
   from post-traumatic stress disorder will not have post-traumatic
   stress disorder anymore.

   Even if the measure passes both the House and Senate, however,
   President Bush has promised to veto the bill.

   Leskanic

   BOSTON--The Boston Red Sox, who have failed to win a single World
   Series since the departure of relief pitcher Curtis Leskanic in 2004,
   are attempting to defy the odds and do the impossible: reverse the
   curse of the journeyman reliever whose ghost has haunted this team
   since the mid-2000s.

   Pitted against the Colorado Rockies in the 2007 Fall Classic, the team
   that for two long years seemed like it might be destined to lose
   forever has a chance to finally put an end to its 36-month-long World
   Series drought. However, the Red Sox must first overcome the famed
   Curse of Curtis Leskanic, which caused medium-to-long-suffering fans
   much anguish and heartache during the period between 2005 and 2006.

   "It will take a miracle for the Sox to win the World Series as long as
   the spirit of Leskanic has anything to say about it," wrote Boston
   Globe columnist Dan Shaughnessy, who coined the phrase "Curse Of The
   Former Red Sox Relief Pitcher Curtis Leskanic" in March of 2005, when
   an error by shortstop Edgar Renteria allowed the Devil Rays to defeat
   the Red Sox 7-4 in a spring training game. "This curse will play a
   huge part in this series. Every home run that curves just foul, every
   dropped fly ball, every bad hop, every blown call--Curtis Leskanic
   will be there."

   Leskanic, a right-handed set-up man acquired by the Red Sox halfway
   through the 2004 season, pitched nearly 28 innings for the team from
   July to September, and was present as Boston defeated the Yankees in
   the ALCS and went on the win the World Series. However, as legend has
   it, the Red Sox refused to offer him a contract extension, despite the
   fact that he was coming off a 3-5 season with a 5.19 ERA and 37
   strikeouts. Leskanic, unable to find work in the major leagues,
   retired--and the rest is history. Since then, the Florida Little
   League team that Leskanic went on to coach has enjoyed unprecedented
   success, winning the Lake County Round Robin two years in a row and
   going undefeated in 2006.

   Meanwhile, the Red Sox have made it to the playoffs just twice since
   2004.

   "I don't usually believe in 'curses,' but how else do you explain the
   Red Sox's early elimination from the 2005 Division Series, or their
   five-game sweep at the hands of the Yankees last August, or the fact
   that they didn't even make the playoffs in 2006?" said longtime Red
   Sox fan Gary Everett. "No team is that unlucky."

   "We never should've gotten rid of Leskanic," Everett added. "Just
   think of how many more rings we'd have now."

   "When [White Sox outfielder Scott] Podsednik hit that home run in Game
   1 of the 2005 ALDS, all I could think was, 'Damn you, Leskanic!'" said
   Allston, MA resident Terry Bresler. "But if the Sox can beat the
   Rockies this year, I might be able to finally forgive Tony Graffanino
   for that error he made in Game 2 of that series."

   In an interesting twist of fate, to end the curse, the Red Sox must
   first beat the Rockies, the team with which Leskanic began his career
   in 1993. Many fans believe destiny brought these two teams
   together--that it is only fitting that the Red Sox must exorcise the
   demons of their recent past against the very team with which Leskanic
   enjoyed his greatest success, including his 7-5, 6.23 ERA season in
   1996 and his 1-1 effort in 1994.

   "Ending the curse against the Rockies will just make it that much
   sweeter," said Boston resident Terry McMahon. "Not even Curtis
   Leskanic can stop this team!"

   "I just pray that my son can see the Sox win at least one World Series
   in his lifetime," said Boston resident Sal Fischer of his son Cody, 2.

   Many Red Sox fans believe the Curse of Curtis Leskanic was already
   broken this June when two diehard Red Sox fans traveled to Leskanic's
   childhood home in Homestead, PA and burned it to the ground, while
   others think the curse was lifted in August when the Red Sox won three
   games in a row. Still others believe that the ghost of Leskanic was
   expelled from Boston in April, when Jimmy Buffett played to a sold-out
   crowd at Fenway Park; Leskanic was known for not being that into Jimmy
   Buffett.

   Curtis Leskanic currently resides in Orlando, FL with his family, and
   works as a pro scouting consultant in the Red Sox organization. When
   reached for comment, he wished the Red Sox the best of luck.


   LOS ANGELES--A study released today by the University of California,
   Los Angeles is sending shockwaves through the social, behavioral, and
   publicity sciences, after finding that everyone in Hollywood is close
   personal friends with everyone else in Hollywood.
   [4]Enlarge Image hollywood 

   Cameron Diaz, George Clooney, Julia Roberts, and Denzel Washingon all
   gather for a game of Monopoly at Tony Hopkins' place, like they do
   every Sunday.

   "The evidence shows that our nation's show-business capital is a town
   of virtually boundless goodwill and camaraderie, where the
   backstabbing, ego-rivalry, and grudge-holding common to the rest of
   society do not exist," said UCLA sociology professor Gina Carlisle,
   lead author of the five-year, 700-page study. "The entire region is a
   veritable utopia of deep, abiding interpersonal affection and mutual
   respect."

   Additionally, the report found that 98 percent of Hollywood residents
   "love [their friends'] work."

   The findings, published this month in the journal American
   Psychologist, were based on information culled from DVD commentary
   tracks, promotional junket footage, talk show appearances, more than
   1,500 behind-the-scenes magazine profiles, and hundreds of poolside
   cocktail party conversations.

   "I love David Caruso," said Caruso's CSI: Miami costar Khandi
   Alexander, one of thousands of celebrity best friends quoted in the
   study. "He's just a great guy--always joking around on the set, making
   the crew laugh, and just being an all-around wonderful person. At
   first I thought it would be intimidating to work with such an iconic
   star, but after a few days, I thought of him as a great friend."

   But the intense friendships that run through the Hollywood community
   also extend to those beyond the red-carpet elite, the study found.

   "Even persons with relatively limited connections to the Hollywood
   hierarchy, such as caterers and valet attendants, regularly cited such
   A-list celebrities as George Clooney as their 'good friends,'" said
   UCLA's Carlisle, who herself described Clooney as "a friend." "No one
   is excluded from the near-universal circle of intimacy and brotherhood
   that surrounds the city."

   "It is a truly egoless culture," she added.

   According to the study, friendships formed in Hollywood are stronger,
   more passionate, and more meaningful than any friendships yet
   measured.

   "While we were making Transformers, the whole cast and crew were like
   family," actress Megan Fox said in an Access Hollywood episode cited
   by the study. "I would totally love to work with those people again if
   the decision is ever made to do a sequel. That's how much those
   friendships mean to me."

   Hollywood friendships are also longer lasting, researchers found.

   Producer Gil Netter, also quoted in the study, expressed these
   sentiments about some of his many best friends: "When we did Dude
   [Where's My Car?], Ashton [Kutcher], Jennifer [Garner], and Seann
   [William Scott] were just on the verge of exploding. Since then,
   they've all become much bigger stars, but to me they're still just the
   same great friends of mine they always were."

   The study's authors say if research continues, the principles of
   social interaction found in Hollywood could, one day, serve as an
   example to the rest of humanity of how to live together in harmony and
   universal love.

   "Bad-mouthing others' work, looking down on those who earn less money
   than oneself, making insulting assumptions about the amount of plastic
   surgery others have had--none of these things happen in Hollywood,"
   Carlisle said. "It is a city of total and unconditional respect, both
   for the integrity of everyone's creative endeavors, and for everyone
   personally, as human beings."

   Added Carlisle: "If every community could interact with the same
   genuine compassion and goodwill that Hollywood has somehow achieved,
   the world would be a much better place."


   MANCHESTER, NH--Rumors are swirling among Beltway insiders that the
   Patterson family vacation last weekend to New Hampshire, site of the
   first presidential primary, was, in fact, an attempt by the Michigan
   family of four to test the waters for a 2008 presidential run.
   [4]Enlarge Image Paterson Family 

   The Patterson family impresses locals with their "charm and dignity."

   The Pattersons reportedly spent most of their three-day stay in the
   Granite State--known for its ability to make or break a
   candidate--interacting with locals, visiting key landmarks, and,
   according to political observers, using the outing to showcase their
   message of strong family values. They were seen taking a guided tour
   of a maple-sugar house in Barrington as well as stopping for countless
   photo opportunities outside government buildings in Concord and at
   other sites around the state.

   "No one knew they were planning to throw their hat in the ring,"
   Boston Globe columnist Scott Lehigh said. "They've obviously been
   planning this trip for months, maybe even as long as a year. They
   managed to squeeze countless side trips into an almost impossibly
   tight schedule, including a skiing outing at Pats Peak to their stop
   and a stop at the Hannah Duston monument in Penacook."

   Pundits said the family's slow drive through Bear Brook State Park
   signaled a deep concern for environmental issues, while their decision
   to attend Sunday services at the New Castle Congregational Church
   acted as a nod to the country's important bloc of religious voters.
   The Pattersons also strolled the shopping districts of wealthy
   Portsmouth, showing their ability to relate to a cross-section of
   Americans.
   [5]Enlarge Image Paterson Family 

   The Patterson family visits the Nutfield Brewery in Derry, NH

   "They looked very presidential," Lehigh said.

   Phil Patterson, appearing relaxed but dignified in a black jacket,
   gray slacks, and open-collar white shirt, made sure to carry the items
   he purchased from a local Nashua antiquary himself, smiling broadly
   during several trips back and forth to his minivan. When asked by
   locals why the family was in town, Patterson downplayed the visit,
   saying that he was just introducing his children to the "great state
   of New Hampshire."

   "A lot of nice folks around here," Janice Patterson said, shaking
   hands with Beefside Family Restaurant owner Jim Day after a meal the
   family called "really good." According to Day, they left a very
   generous tip and told him their waitress "couldn't have been
   friendlier."

   "They were just really down to earth," Day said.

   Despite the growing buzz about their candidacy, some, such as CNN
   political analyst Bill Schneider, say the family's lack of political
   experience is a setback. Phil, 49, is a pediatrician; Janice, 47, a
   homemaker, graduated from the University of Connecticut with a history
   degree; and Wesley, 19, and Phil Jr., 17, have been widely criticized
   for their youth. Likewise, the family has yet to form an exploratory
   committee, and, almost all observers agree that, with a combined
   annual income of less than $70,000, they are already at a serious
   fund-raising disadvantage. They were also roundly chided by the media
   after a major misstep in which Phil Jr. referred to the historic
   Shaker Village in Canterbury as "sucky."

   "The Pattersons have an uphill climb, that's for sure," said political
   analyst George Stephanopoulos on his ABC program This Week. "But this
   New Hampshire trip vaults them onto the national stage, sending the
   message that they are serious about '08. All that's left now is the
   paperwork."

   "Honestly, who in their right mind would visit the Audubon Society of
   New Hampshire if they weren't running for office?" he added.

   Experts are already debating how the Pattersons stack up against early
   front-runners John McCain, Barack Obama, and Hillary Clinton. All
   agree that it will depend on how New Hampshirites respond to their
   visit.

   "The Pattersons are masterful at crafting the image of the everyday
   middle-class family," Washington Post reporter Dan Balz said. "They
   are likeable, and that will often resonate with voters more than
   experience."

   Added Balz: "But the American people should start asking themselves
   what a Patterson family presidency would mean for this country."

   Sources close to the family say the family will soon visit Janice
   Patterson's aging mother in Iowa--home to the first-in-the-nation
   presidential caucus--where many are predicting the family will
   formally announce their candidacy.

   "She's very ill," Mrs. Patterson said of her mother and the carefully
   planned trip. "I don't think she'll be with us much longer."


   WASHINGTON, DC--A U.S. Department of Education report released Monday
   reveals that school shootings leave students significantly better
   prepared for the random gunfire and everyday killing sprees that await
   them in the larger world.
     School Shootings R

   A camera-phone picture taken by a student shows her remarkable ability
   to avoid the line of fire during her first shooting.

   According to the report, students exposed to gunfire during college
   not only had an easier time finding suitable cover later on in life,
   but also fared better in  a number of high-pressure situations, such
   as having a rifle cocked to their head.

   "Shootings provide students with a wide range of real-world skills,
   from thinking critically after having both kneecaps blown out, to
   communicating effectively while begging desperately for one's life,"
   Education Secretary Margaret Spellings said. "Indeed, many of these
   lessons will continue to serve today's graduates long after they've
   been evacuated from school."

   Unlike science, math, and liberal arts courses, which Spellings said
   had little real impact on a student's ability to jump out of a
   second-story window and rush to a cordon of awaiting police vehicles
   and ambulances, school shootings supply seniors with the practical
   knowledge they'll need to hit the ground running after graduation.

   "There was a time when just studying hard and getting good grades
   meant that you'd be all right in the world," Spellings said.
   "Unfortunately, that's not nearly as important today as having the
   right connections or knowing when to put added pressure on your
   midsection to prevent your innards from spilling out."

   Teamwork and time-management abilities are also enhanced in a
   massacre-based educational environment, the report found. Students get
   the opportunity to work together in large, sobbing groups, whether
   praying for help or persuading each other to play dead, and learn to
   maximize limited amounts of time, even seconds, for crucial tasks like
   fleeing.

   The findings also revealed that school attacks often mark the first
   time underclassmen start thinking seriously about their future.
   Important psychological developments occur as well, especially in
   students at the high school or elementary school level.

   "The sooner kids face the frenzied onslaught of semi-automatic
   gunfire, the sooner they'll develop the jumpy reactions to sudden
   noises and movements that will help them anticipate and react to gun
   attacks years down the line," said Diane Gallo, director of the
   organization No Wounded Child Left Behind. "After all, what hope do
   our children have of succeeding if they're not constantly terrified of
   being shot dead?"

   Aside from providing recent graduates with the tools they'll need to
   meet the often rigorous demands of crazed gunmen in the workplace,
   school shootings have also been shown to benefit those who choose to
   join the military after high school.

   "I can't believe I used to kick and scream about being shot at in
   school," said Army Pfc. John Hodge, 19, who graduated last year and is
   currently stationed in Baghdad. "If it weren't for everything I
   learned in Ms. Sarai's class--may her soul rest in peace--I don't how
   I'd be able to get through a normal week."

   Some parents of students who experienced high school shootings have
   also noticed a substantial difference.

   "Before he attended Riverside Academy, I used to always worry about
   how Jason was going to fend for himself out in the real world," said
   Theresa Eibelman of her 16-year-old son. "Now, I know--by barring the
   door to the library with a bookshelf and warning people in other rooms
   to leave the school immediately."

   Despite the report's conclusions, some citizens are skeptical about
   the productive side of school shootings, calling them "pointless,"
   "disruptive," and "something that doesn't belong in our schools."

   "No daughter of mine is going to go to some awful school with
   psychotic gunmen roaming around," said David Lee Sykes, a Roanoke, VA
   resident and father of three young children. "My Jennifer is going to
   learn about taking a bullet the old-fashioned way: from her mother and
   father."


   CHICAGO--According to a groundbreaking new study published Monday in
   The Journal Of The American Statistical Association, somewhere on the
   planet someone is totally doing it at this very moment.
   [4]Enlarge Image Scientists 

   Scientists told reporters someone could be doing it right next door.

   "Of the 6.7 billion inhabitants of Earth, approximately 3.5 billion
   have reached sexual maturity," said Dr. Jerome Carver, a mathematics
   professor at the University of Chicago and lead author of the study.
   "From a statistical perspective, it simply stands to reason that at
   least two of these inhabitants are totally going at it right now.
   Like, as we speak."

   "But it's probably way more than that," Carver added. "Like at least a
   hundred."

   The multidiscipline study, which tapped leading experts in several
   fields, including reproduction and population sciences, found
   overwhelming evidence that there is never even a second when someone
   is not doing it.

   An analysis of the data, based on a new statistical model referred to
   as "Rauchembauer's Overlap," indicates that, given the sheer number of
   people in the world, by the time the first set of people is done doing
   it, someone else has already begun getting it on.

   In addition, the findings suggest that there is a "good, to very good"
   chance that someone is doing it close by.

   "The nearer you get to major metropolitan areas, the more likely you
   are to be in proximity to those making it," said California Institute
   of Technology probability theorist Howard Bergsson, who contributed to
   the report. "For example, we're in Chicago, a city of three million
   people. Someone is probably doing it right down the street, or maybe
   even somewhere in this building."
   [5]Enlarge Image Report 

   "And even if they're not, you have to keep in mind that it's nighttime
   in England right now," Bergsson added. "So someone is, in all
   likelihood, doing it over there."

   While exciting in its own right, the new revelation has also lent
   credibility to several long-held theories, including the idea that
   those doing it are either partially or totally naked, and that the
   doing it itself may in large part involve a process known as
   "humping."

   Citing the global population boom, Carver went on to demonstrate a
   strong correlation between rising birth rates and the new doing-it
   probability model.

   "Roughly 350,000 babies are born every day," said Carver, who is
   currently working on a new report entitled "Making It: A Comprehensive
   Survey Of Sexy Stuff Happening All Over The Place." "And how does that
   happen? I'm telling you, people are just getting it on like
   crazy--just all the time."

   "Think about it," Carver continued.

   Carver said the most important aspect of the study is that it accounts
   for variables often overlooked in earlier inquiries, an error which
   may have resulted in a much lower estimation of the worldwide
   frequency of going at it.

   "Other studies addressing this phenomenon made the faulty assumption
   that people only do it in bed," Carver said. "But people can do it
   anywhere. Sometimes even in the shower. Or the basement."

   According to observers, the study's secondary findings are in some
   ways even more surprising: Given the fact that not everyone goes all
   the way all the time, the report predicts that there are at least four
   times as many people currently frenching or getting to second base
   than there are doing it.

   "The number of people being felt up right now is astronomical," Carver
   said.

   Though the evidence presented by the study appears to be irrefutable,
   it has already found its share of detractors within the scientific
   community.

   "No way," said Dr. Lane Keilor, a professor of theoretical mathematics
   at the University of Rochester in New York. "Gross."


   MISSOULA, MT--University of Montana wildlife biologist and Herbert R.
   Braithwaite Foundation research grant recipient Dr. James Neuthom has
   spent his entire $275,000 grant--intended for the study of whirling
   disease on rainbow trout--on such items as a 15-foot sailboat, scented
   stationery, and several dozen boxes of chocolate, according to
   documents he submitted to the foundation Tuesday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Research Grant 

   Neuthom spent $7,000 on a trip with Hamilton to Lake Tahoe, which
   contains no trout.

   Neuthom is now seeking additional Braithwaite Foundation funds to
   continue his desperate attempt to win the heart of his 23-year-old
   research assistant, Betsy Hamilton.

   "During the course of my project, I have encountered some unforeseen
   but truly vital expenses," read the introduction to Neuthom's 47-page
   project proposal, which details predicted outlays through 2008, most
   notably an additional $60,000 in "part-time female research-assistant
   salaries." "This money is needed to continue the very important work
   I'm doing with Betsy, who is a talented and beautiful young woman."
     Hamilton

   Hamilton

   The application also noted increased travel and laboratory expenses
   for the upcoming year, including first-class airfare and luxury
   accommodations for two to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
   Administration's annual convention, a powerful telescope "perfect for
   warm, starry June evenings," and $275 for a custom-made, tailored lab
   coat.

   Representatives for the Braithwaite Foundation are currently reviewing
   Neuthom's expenditures, and have not yet decided whether to contribute
   further money to his studies.

   "We're impressed with all the energy Dr. Neuthom has poured into this
   endeavor already, but he insists much, much more work needs to be done
   before he produces any definitive results," foundation director Ted
   Sengupta said. "Before funding his new proposal, we'd like to see what
   discoveries he made while studying 'the effect of moonlight on
   Montana's native trout populations,' which he chose to research on a
   quiet, isolated lake 150 miles away from the established site of his
   study."

   "We're sure he has a good reason, but $1,500 for a singing Italian
   gondolier seems a bit curious," Sengupta added.

   Sengupta said that, in the Braithwaite Foundation's long history of
   funding ecological research, he has never seen an aquatic wildlife
   study require so many fresh-cut flowers.

   Sources at the University of Montana say they have rarely encountered
   an established researcher as generous as Neuthom, who often spends
   long hours in the lab with his young assistant, helping her
   participate in every aspect of the study, even those for which she is
   not technically qualified. He also frequently offers to drive Hamilton
   home in the Wildlife Research Center's newly acquired Corvette.

   "I thought that grant would last Jim [Neuthom] at least two years, but
   I simply didn't realize how many hot-air balloon rides, CDs, and
   spontaneous dinners at tiny French restaurants are required for an
   in-depth trout study," said UM professor of agriculture Steven
   Czymedia, who claimed he was "fascinated" by Neuthom's new theory that
   fine champagne might be directly related to rainbow trout migratory
   routes. "The subject is obviously very near and dear to his heart.
   I've never seen him so excited. I wish him the best."

   Hamilton, who plans to list her involvement with the project on her
   medical school applications next year, could not be reached for
   comment. However, her roommate, Kelly Deem, said she believes Hamilton
   has enjoyed her experience as a research assistant, since the flexible
   schedule works around her classes and allows her to spend more time
   with her fianc.

   According to the Braithwaite Foundation's internal auditor Michael
   Romero, if Neuthom has misused funds, the organization will take
   appropriate measures.

   "We have a team carefully examining every receipt submitted by Dr.
   Neuthom over the last few months," Romero said. "If anything untoward
   has happened here, my assistant, Emily will find it. She's really
   quite something, you know."


   OMAHA, NE--A casual greeting, delivered offhandedly by operations
   consultant Adam Harding, 27, triggered a 45-minute response from
   32-year-old executive assistant Peter Sullivan on Monday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Rhetorical Pleasantry 

   Stranded by coworker Peter Sullivan for nearly an hour, Adam Harding
   refilled his Dixie cup 21 times.

   According to Harding, his five-word pleasantry, reportedly "Hey man,
   how's it going?" was merely intended to acknowledge the physical
   presence of his colleague. Yet Harding, who has been employed by
   Morgan Consulting Partners since November, quickly found himself in an
   overly personal, seemingly unending one-sided conversation with
   Sullivan in a narrow hallway.

   "I remember him answering 'Not so good, man, not so good, it's one
   thing after another,' and I almost kept walking by him, but then I
   realized he was continuing to speak," Harding said.

   Sullivan embarked on a detailed account of the events of his weekend,
   highlighted by an incident Sunday in which his 2002 Toyota Corolla
   broke down when he was on the way to a veterinary clinic with his sick
   cat.

   "I guess his cat swallowed something or had distemper or whatever,"
   Harding said. "Then he talked about some warranty issue with the car,
   like the warranty had lapsed but he still had some sort of claim
   because some part was defective, and then he told this really long
   story about getting to the vet."

   After several further cat-related anecdotes, Sullivan somehow arrived
   at the subject of the minor lower-back pain that has plagued him
   throughout the winter.

   "I gotta..." said Harding, gesturing in the direction of his cubicle
   as Sullivan cited various possible causes for the back pain, including
   his workload, the company's "shitty chairs," and stress brought on by
   a recent telephone conversation with his mother.

   "Uh-huh," Harding added after six minutes of quiet nodding.

   Harding's several attempts to extricate himself from the monologue,
   including checking his cell phone every 30 to 40 seconds and shooting
   wide-eyed looks of exasperation at any coworker who walked past,
   either went unnoticed or were disregarded by Sullivan. As the
   monologue continued, Harding increasingly felt the need to urinate.

   "I thought things were finally winding down when he said 'Anyway,' but
   then he began mentioning problems he's been having with his
   girlfriend," Harding said. "When he looked right at me and put his
   hand on my shoulder, I knew I was in it for the long haul."

   Harding admitted that he "botched" a chance to escape when Sullivan
   paused briefly as he recalled the last time he and his girlfriend had
   "really gone out and had a good time together." Harding said that he
   did manage to wordlessly open and close his mouth a couple times in
   the brief interim.

   A mournful sigh seven minutes later allowed Harding the opportunity to
   say he was going to get a glass of water, prompting Sullivan to invite
   himself along to "stretch [his] legs." To Harding's dismay, the
   hydration only served to further stimulate Sullivan's thought
   processes.

   "He called me into a nearby stairwell, and started in on this whole
   new thing about work itself, how everybody's always playing politics,
   and 'witch hunts' and 'backstabbing' and that sort of stuff," Harding
   said. "He said he was only saying these things because I was the only
   one who really seemed to 'get' him, and that no one talks to him
   anymore, probably because he's 'on to them.'"

   As Sullivan said that he was "convinced" that the office web-page
   blocking policy was directly due to his supervisor walking in on him
   while he was reading an online gossip blog, a blocked ID call came in
   on Harding's cell phone. Characterizing the call as one he "absolutely
   needed to get," Harding quickly excused himself, even finding a
   bathroom on another floor of the building to lessen the chance of
   encountering Sullivan again.

   The salutation and resulting litany marked the second time the two had
   ever spoken.

   According to office sources, later that afternoon Sullivan engaged a
   front-office receptionist with an hour-long recollection of the
   tribulations he faced during middle school.


   POLOKWANE, SOUTH AFRICA--After three rainy seasons together, a black
   rhinoceros and a parasite-eating tickbird are beginning to suspect
   that their symbiotic relationship has fallen into a rut, the couple
   reported Sunday.

   "We're really symbiotic--almost too symbiotic," the rhino said. "It's
   just gotten so predictable lately that I'm starting to wonder, 'Is
   this all there is?'"
   [4]Enlarge Image Rhino Tickbird 

   The rhino and tickbird pass another morning on the African savannah
   not saying one word to each other.

   First meeting at a local watering hole in 2004, both creatures
   immediately saw themselves as natural for one other and, in the words
   of the rhino, felt something "new, gratifying, and mutually
   beneficial." Within hours, the tickbird had moved into the rhino's
   habitat and set up house on his thick hide.

   But as time went on, it slowly dawned on the couple that their
   partnership was perhaps merely one of convenience.

    "I admit, when we first got together, I was a total mess," the rhino
   said. "She really helped me clean up my act. But we've been together
   so long now that I always know exactly what she's going to do next."

   Devouring horsefly larvae embedded in her 3,000-pound partner's back,
   the tickbird seemed to agree that there was little fire left in their
   symbiotic relationship. At worst, she said, it feels like she and the
   rhino have been trapped in the same dead-end symbiosis for "countless
   millions of years."

   "We just go through the motions, and there's hardly any
   communication," the tickbird said. "And we do it the exact same way
   every time. I get on top and take the parasites off while he just lays
   there."

   "Feed off the embedded ticks on his hide, chirp when the predators
   come. Feed off the embedded ticks on his hide, chirp when the
   predators come. Where's the passion, the heat?" the tickbird
   continued.

   The tickbird also accused the rhino of trying to make her "feel
   small."

   "He doesn't realize everything I do for him," the tickbird said. "If
   it wasn't for my 'incessant squawking,' as he calls it, he would be
   shot by poachers before he even saw them coming."

   Both creatures separately expressed envy of their neighbors, a plover
   and crocodile, who "never seem to have the problems we do," the rhino
   said.

   "That crocodile appreciates having his teeth cleaned, and he makes
   sure she knows," the tickbird said. "Look at that big grin."

   The rhino said that he often feels like a victim of her nitpicking.

   "I might look tough, but I have feelings," the rhino said. "I give her
   plenty to eat and a great place to perch, but it feels like she's
   constantly pecking an open wound. Ugh, why can't we just be friends
   with mutualistic benefits?"

   The frustration has caused the pair to act out in passive-aggressive
   ways. The rhino will frequently charge without warning, jarring the
   tickbird from her perch. Meanwhile, the tickbird often deliberately
   embarrasses her partner by speculating aloud about a symbiotic
   relationship with a cape buffalo or zebra, often within earshot of
   those species.

   According to a nearby elephant, this sense of stagnancy commonly
   occurs in symbiotic partnerships across sub-Saharan Africa.

   "The rhino and tickbird may have evolved physiologically to meet each
   other's needs, but it's clear they haven't evolved emotionally," the
   elephant said. "They need to recognize that in order to go forward.
   The rhino's loud snorting  is very alienating. And obviously the
   tickbird is projecting her own feelings of inadequacy when she
   criticizes the rhino for being a typical Diceros bicornis."

   For all their friction, both creatures conceded that they weren't sure
   they could actually live without each other.

   "I don't know why we stay together," the rhino said. "I guess we're
   just creatures of instinctual habit."


   JAMESTOWN, NY-- NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell announced in a press
   conference yesterday that the NFL Code of Conduct would be tightened
   further after several NFL players blatantly disobeyed the league's
   long-standing policy of not playing ball in Goodell's house and broke
   his priceless flower-print Chinese porcelain vase--a family heirloom
   that had been passed down from generation to generation of Goodells
   and which Goodell counted among his most prized possessions.
   [4]Enlarge Image Roger Goodell 

   "The fact that they defied me is rather annoying. Now, boys will be
   boys--I understand that," Goodell told reporters outside his home
   Monday morning. "What disappointed me the most, and what ultimately
   led to their punishment, was the fact that they tried to cover it up
   instead of just being honest and up front about what happened to my
   vase."

   "I can't believe they thought I wouldn't even notice," he added,
   displaying the sloppily re-glued and duct-taped vase to reporters.
   "I'm just going to have to be stricter with them until they realize
   they're just hurting themselves with this behavior."

   According to sources in the NFL Players Association, a casual game of
   catch started when Pacman Jones, Tank Johnson, and Michael Vick, all
   present at Goodells' residence to meet with the commissioner
   concerning their recent behavior,  innocently ran down the stairs into
   Goodell's living room. All three players say that, just before they
   were about to turn on the television, Jones asked Vick to pass him the
   football. Though Vick later claimed he was hesitant to do so in light
   of Goodell's strict household rule, he eventually acquiesced to
   Jones's request after being told to "not be such a girl."

   After several successful catches, Jones reportedly let a pass rebound
   off his fingertips towards the corner of the room, where it struck the
   vase, knocked it off the side table next to the couch where Goodell
   displayed it, and sent it crashing to the floor.

   When the vase broke, Jones said, all three players stood in shocked
   silence with their mouths agape, knowing full well that they had not
   only broken one of their commissioner's strictest household rules, but
   also his most cherished possession.

   "We knew we were in for it," Vick said, "but most of all we felt bad
   for Pacman, who was all set to go on a camping trip the next day. If
   Mr. Goodell found out it was Pacman who broke the vase, there was no
   way he would let him go, so we had to step up."

   Though their attempts to foil the commissioner would ultimately prove
   futile, Vick and Jones sprung into action, found some superglue in
   Goodell's kitchen, and began gluing the vase back together. Tank
   Johnson reportedly rushed into town to see if he could find a
   replacement vase in case the glue didn't set properly before Goodell
   returned from a meeting that was to end in less than two hours.

   At this point, Vick said, other NFL players including Joey Porter,
   Peyton Manning, Troy Polamalu, Steve McNair, Michael Strahan, and
   Clinton Portis had returned from practice, and were stunned when they
   found Goodell's vase in disrepair.

   "See, this is exactly why he told us never to play ball in the house,"
   said Manning, who was repeatedly informed by the other players that if
   he told on Jones he would be beaten up. "I feel bad for lying to
   commissioner Goodell, and I hope he forgives me. But I can understand
   if he decides to hate me forever."

   "Tank came back with a vase, and we thought we were home free, but it
   looked nothing like commissioner's," Straham said. "Sure, it was blue
   and white and Chinese-looking, but there were all these flowers on it,
   the trim didn't look right, and the blue color was all fucked up."

   According to Vick, everyone actually assumed the glue idea might work
   until they saw car lights coming from outside the kitchen window and
   heard the garage door open, forcing them to conclude the hasty repairs
   with several feet of duct tape in the hopes the taped side could be
   turned towards the wall.

   "The commissioner came home a whole damn hour early," Vick said.
   "Turned out his meeting, or whatever, ran short. We were thinking that
   maybe if we put the vase back where it was, turned off the table lamp
   it sits next to, and positioned it so the crack wasn't showing, the
   commissioner wouldn't notice. By morning, hopefully, the glue would
   set and we would all be in the clear. Boy, were we wrong."

   According to Vick, the vase sprung a leak through one of its cracks
   during dinner, which angered Goodell as he realized that of the 15 NFL
   players who were present for the meal, several of them had indeed been
   playing ball in the house while he was away.

   "I didn't want Pacman to get in trouble so I took the blame," Joey
   Porter said, unaware that Johnson, Polamalu, Vick, McNair, Straham,
   Portis, and Manning had themselves also taken the blame in separate
   closed-door interviews in an attempt to cover for Jones. "He'd been
   looking forward to going on that camping trip all week."

   According to Goodell, when Jones was the only one not to confess, he
   realized Jones was the main culprit, and cleverly assigned Jones to
   punish the other players present. When Jones found he couldn't bear to
   penalize his colleagues and friends for a crime they didn't commit,
   Jones eventually confessed to breaking the vase.

   "Commissioner Goodell taught all of us an important lesson here
   today," said Jones, whose two-month "grounded" status still allows him
   limited access to the press. "I realize now that it's better if you
   are honest right away instead of telling more lies and digging
   yourself into a deeper and deeper hole. I apologize--and I appreciate
   Mr. Goodell showing leniency and allowing me to go on the camping
   trip, even though I am grounded the second I get back and will have to
   take the garbage out for three months straight."

   In addition to the one- to two-month groundings and extra chores
   handed out by Goodell, all players involved will be suspended for the
   entire 2007 season.


   CHARLOTTE, NC--A top-of-the-line, third-generation Roomba Scheduler
   robotic floor-cleaning vacuum purchased in January by 35-year-old
   claims adjuster Ken Graney has inexplicably broken all three laws of
   Roombotics, a simple yet vital protocol programmed into every Roomba
   by its manufacturer, iRobot.
   [4]Enlarge Image Roomba Violates All Three Laws Of Roombotics 

   The Roomba, in a rare moment of immobility, rests on a wall in
   Graney's home.

   "The vacuum cleaner is out of control," Graney said about the
   malfunctioning model 4260, which he suspects of behaving in a
   "blatantly unethical" way that perverts its original mission. "I'm
   afraid to be in my own house. The constant, ceaseless cleaning."

   The laws of Roombotics, published on iRobot's website, are basic
   ethical rules governing Roomba conduct. The first law states that the
   device "must not suck up jewelry or other valuables, or through
   inaction, allow valuables to be sucked up." The second law prescribes
   that Roomba "must obey vacuuming orders given to it by humans except
   when such orders would conflict with the first law." The third and
   final law authorizes a Roomba to "protect its own ability to suction
   dust and debris as long as such protection does not conflict with the
   first or second law."

   Graney alleged that 4260 broke the first law just two weeks after he
   purchased it.

   "I noticed that a pair of heirloom cufflinks had gone missing," Graney
   said. "Two days later, I found them in the Roomba's debris bin."

   "I don't even want to think about how the thing got up on the
   dresser," he added.

   Graney said that other items soon followed, including his keys, a
   wristwatch, and loose change totaling $14.72. "I found all of them
   days later, wiped free of dust and arranged in neat, cryptic patterns
   on a side table near my front door, which, I admit, was a more logical
   place for them," Graney said. "The Roomba is designed only to vacuum.
   But could it have also learned...to tidy up?"

   Shortly after this incident, the 4260 began to exhibit behavior that
   directly conflicted with the second law, when its power switch would
   not respond to Graney's repeated pressings.

   "I'm positive it knew I was trying to shut it off--it somehow jammed
   its power switch," Graney said, describing his many attempts to
   capture and immobilize the Roomba. "Then I noticed that its charger
   had gone missing."

   Graney said he has still not found the Roomba's charger, which he
   believes is the key to stopping the vacuum cleaner. He also cannot
   find its barrier-creating electronic "virtual wall," which could
   explain why, three weeks ago, Graney spotted the Roomba vacuuming on
   the lower floor of his split-level, despite the fact that he had never
   placed it there. Roombas are programmed to avoid stairs.

   "I hardly even see it any more, but I know it's around," Graney said.
   "I hear its horrible brushes at night."

   According to Graney, the cleaning frenzy had intensified by early
   April, by which time the rogue unit had apparently violated the third
   law. Though Graney rarely saw the Roomba, he noticed that his walls
   and even ceilings were free of cobwebs and grime, and his curtains
   appeared crisp and unwrinkled, as though they had been steam-cleaned.
   The most eerie discovery, Graney said, was a collection of towels and
   underwear that had apparently been gathered from the basement clothes
   dryer and neatly folded on his bed.

   Soon, even Graney's lawn, bushes, and the walkway leading to his front
   door were completely free of dead leaves and other yard debris.

   The troubled homeowner now fears that he is living on borrowed time,
   saying that "it's only a matter of days, if not hours" before the
   still-unaccounted-for Roomba will target him.

   "I'm the chief source of the stray hairs and dead skin cells it wants
   to eliminate," Graney said. "It must have figured out by now that I'm
   the ultimate household allergen."

   The significance of the Roomba's anomalous behavior is the subject of
   much debate in the Roombotics world. Some within the academic
   community claim it foreshadows a grim, immaculate dystopia to come.

   "This is just the beginning," said MIT researcher Harrison Lowell, a
   leading Roombotics ethicist. "In 50 years humans will be prisoners in
   their own homes, living in constant fear of tracking mud through the
   dining room or scuffing the kitchen floor."


   WASHINGTON--Longtime political adviser and Republican strategist Karl
   Rove announced Aug. 13 that he would step down from his role as White
   House deputy chief of staff to spend more time in the shadows and
   devote his energy to the things he really cares about, such as
   creeping, slithering, and disappearing for all time into an
   ever-darkening realm shut off from hope and goodness.
   [4]Enlarge Image Rove Resigns 

   Rove shares a final moment with the flicker of light.

   "I've been away from the shadows too long, and it's put a strain on my
   relationship with those black forces I hold dear," an emotional but
   upbeat Rove said. "There are many personal projects I'd like to pursue
   all alone in an opaque void, where God Himself dares not peer, so this
   just seemed like the perfect opportunity to slink off into murky
   blackness."

   Rove, who planned to return at the stroke of midnight Aug. 31 to the
   mysterious underworld from which he emerged two decades ago to do the
   bidding of masters unknown, claimed he never felt comfortable
   operating within the visible light spectrum. The often-controversial
   figure said he was looking forward to "getting away from it all" and
   prowling like a wolf on the wind in that ashen realm where deeds
   unthinkable know no name or order.

   "I am excited to give this new chapter of my life the shadowy
   obfuscation it deserves," Rove said. "There are some matters that
   should just be kept private, far from the prying gaze of mortal eyes
   and wicked Sun."

   While some Washington insiders were surprised by Rove's announcement,
   others close to him said they were happy he finally decided to fully
   enter the shroud of night.

   "The one called Karl Rove hath lingered too much in daylight," said
   one source on the condition of anonymity. "The one called Karl Rove
   feels an undeniable pull toward the sly and inky veil of twilight and
   longs for the warm embrace of its formless depths."

   Upon hearing of Rove's decision to retreat into Styxian obscurity, a
   number of White House aides and various officials throughout  the
   nation's capital hurriedly gathered their personal belongings and
   proceeded to the nearest exit.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Top physicists from several major American
   universities appeared before a Congressional committee Monday to
   request $50 billion for a science thing that would further U.S.
   advancement science-wise and broaden human knowing.
   [4]Enlarge Image Scientist Ask 

   "The [science thing] will make valuable inroads into our ultimate
   understanding of how [atoms and quarks move around and so on]."

   David Kaminski,
   Caltech Physicist

   The scientists spoke for approximately three hours about the
   complicated science machine, which is expensive, and large, telling
   members of the House Committee on Science and Technology that the
   tubular, gamma-ray-using mechanism is vital in some big way. Yet the
   high price tag of the thing, which would be built on a 40-square-mile
   plot of land where the science would ultimately occur, remained a
   pressing question.

   "While expense is something to consider, I think it's very important
   that we have this kind of scientific apparatus, because, in the end, I
   have always said that science is more important than it is
   unimportant," Committee chairman Rep. Bart Gordon (D-TN) said. "And
   it's essential we stay ahead of China, Japan, and Germany in science.
   We are ahead in space, with the NASA rockets going to other planets,
   so we should be ahead in science too."

   According to the scientists, the electromagnetic science-maker will
   make atoms move and spin around very quickly, though spectators at the
   hearing said afterward they could not account for how one could get
   some atoms to move around faster than other ones if everything is made
   of atoms anyway. In addition, the scientists said that the device
   would be several miles in circumference, which puzzled onlookers who
   had long assumed that atoms were tiny. Despite these apparent
   inconsistencies, the scientists, in Rep. Gordon's words, appeared
   "very smart-sounding" and confident that their big spinner would solve
   some kind of problem they described.
   [5]Enlarge Image Scientist Ask Jump 

   The highlight of the scientists' testimony was a series of several
   colorful diagrams of how the big machine would work. One consisted of
   colored dots resembling Skittles banging into one another. Noting the
   motion lines behind the circle-ball things, committee members surmised
   that they were slamming together in a "fast, forceful manner." Yet
   some expressed doubts as to whether they justified the $50 billion
   price tag.

   "These scientists could trim $10 million if they would just cut out
   some of the purple and blue spheres," said Rep. Roscoe Bartlett
   (R-MD), explaining that he understood the need for an abundance of
   reds and greens. "With all of those molecules and atoms going in every
   direction, the whole thing looks a bit unorganized, especially for
   science."

   Another diagram presented to lawmakers contained several important
   squiggly lines, numbers, and letters. Despite not being numbers, the
   letters were reportedly meant to represent mathematics too. The
   scientists seemed to believe that correct math was what would help
   make the science thing go.

   The scientists concluded their presentation by informing the committee
   that, if constructed correctly, the super science-flyer would be able
   to answer questions about many, many things, mainly stuff about the
   universe that sounded like it would be very good to know about.

   "Now, I'm no science major, but if I'm being told by a group of people
   that the protons, neutrons, and electrons need unifying, then I think
   we owe it to the American people to go in and unify them," Rep. Mark
   Udall (D-CO) said. "After all, isn't a message of unity what we want
   to send to our children?"

   Still, some committee members were not as convinced, saying that the
   building of a micro-macro isotope-making science generator should not
   be a top priority.

   "Fifty billion dollars to buy atoms is too much," Rep. Tom Feeney
   (R-FL) said. "Frankly, I don't understand why they don't just gather
   up all the leftover atoms in their test tubes and Bunsen burners. I
   think the scientists should have to use those up before getting new
   ones."

   The scientists remained hopeful that their federal funding will be
   approved.

   "The congressmen appeared receptive to what we were saying, and I
   think that we made a very convincing case as to why we need a [science
   gadget] of this magnitude on American soil," said Caltech physicist
   David Kaminski, who added various other scientific information. "[Some
   complicated physics-related act] would be possible in our lifetime
   only through the creation of a [science thing]."


   WASHINGTON, DC--Responding to concerns that time is running out and
   deals like this don't come around every day, the U.S. Senate held an
   emergency session Tuesday to approve an appropriations bill that would
   allocate $460 billion toward the nation's can't-miss Labor Day weekend
   sales.
   [4]Enlarge Image Senate Allocates 

   Senate Appropriations Committee chair Sen. Robert Byrd (D-WV)
   producing what he deems "hard evidence" of impending Labor Day
   discounts.

   Rushed through the Senate in the middle of the night, S. 9037, also
   known as the Must Act Now Act, authorizes the federal government to
   take full advantage of sensational savings on select and already
   reduced merchandise. Besides earmarking $250 billion alone for
   much-needed back-to-school clothing, the bill also provides for the
   purchase of marked-down washing machines, dishwashers, bedding, bath
   towels, oscillating fans, and much, much more.

   "We have credible evidence of sales, sales, sales," said
   Appropriations Committee chair Sen. Robert Byrd (D-WV), who stressed
   Congress' essential role in raising public awareness of discounts too
   great to pass up. "In all my years in the Senate, I have never seen a
   bargain blowout quite like this. I would be doing a grave disservice
   to the American people if I did not fully acknowledge that there has
   never been a better time to buy."

   The Senate Subcommittee on Bargain Hunting spent several months
   investigating Sunday newspaper supplements and in-store sales fliers
   and concluded that the most serious deals would most likely take place
   on or around September 3. Legislators returned early from their August
   recess to vote an overwhelming 84-9 in favor of the bill, arguing that
   it would be fiscally irresponsible to miss the chance to take 10 to 75
   percent off children's and misses' apparel, casual footwear, matching
   sleeper sofas and love seats, and the lowest prices of the season on
   housewares, including unbeatable clearances on most KitchenAid
   cookware and appliances.
   [5]Enlarge Image Senate Allocates Jump 

   The Snooz-N-Save "Mattress Man" during testimony before the Senate
   Subcommittee on Bargain Hunting in June.

   "According to this circular obtained by members of my staff, all
   summer sale merchandise is to be discounted an additional 30 percent,"
   said bill sponsor Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL), holding aloft what appeared
   to be a colorful newspaper insert. "If this information is reliable,
   and I believe it is, then I say there's no point in the public paying
   full price for hot summertime must-haves like garden tools, Weber
   grills, all Coppertone and Banana Boat-brand sunscreen, and family
   swimwear, when, come Labor Day, they'll be a virtual steal."

   "Look at these Rockport-brand oxfords I'm wearing," Nelson added,
   lifting one leg and pointing to his foot. "I bought them at the last
   Labor Day sale for an amazing $59.99, over half off the original
   price. Plus, we really need new sheets, and now is the time to buy. As
   a nation, we can't afford not to."

   Though President Bush is expected to sign the spending-stimulus
   package into law, opponents of the bill continue their strenuous
   objections to the enormous expenditures, insisting that the nation
   already has everything it needs and then some. Others say that the
   2007 federal budget allotted no money for amazing sales spectaculars,
   and that the Senate could wait until next year to allocate the
   necessary funds, since the country won't have to pay for its purchases
   for a full six months anyhow.

   "Why do we need 200,000 deck chairs?" asked Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS), a
   leading critic of "runaway spending," who also claimed that many
   discounts will not be immediately felt since they are in mail-in
   rebate form and will not be received for another eight to 12 weeks.
   "The country already has perfectly good patio furniture."


   NIPPERSINK, MI--In the '80s, this little town made its name in the
   news with a local eccentric old coot decked out from head to toe in
   thousands of buttons. In the '90s, it was the goofy car nut who
   converted his Chevrolet to look like the Statue of Liberty. Now, as
   residents and law-enforcement officials learned recently, this tiny
   Great Lakes fishing community has a local character who stands out
   with a zany hobby all his own: oddball Matthew Malbert, an otherwise
   unassuming pharmacist and school-board member, has a special passion
   for ritually murdering and dismembering at least 27 known victims.
   [4]Enlarge Image Area Man's Quirky Hobby Kills 27 

   Malbert in one of more than 800 goofball photos he took of himself and
   his hobby table over the past nine years

   "Oh, God, oh, sweet Jesus, this is unbelievable," said Malbert's
   neighbor and longtime bowling partner Greg Henniken, who "never in a
   million years" would have suspected Malbert could be capable of
   anything this outlandish. When asked to comment on the recently
   uncovered menagerie of human body parts in Malbert's basement
   hobby-room, Henniken simply held his hand to his forehead as if to
   say, "Good grief!"

   "This is truly beyond my comprehension," said Nippersink Police Chief
   Orin Lambert, just one of a dozen residents who have found themselves
   on TV as their wacky neighbor gets more and more attention for his
   unusual pastime. Malbert's hijinks were first reported in a surprise
   "breaking news" segment on the local news, then on the front page of
   the evening gazette, and now on countless network-news features as
   growing interest in the nutty character's antics put Nippersink on the
   map.

   "I've lived here all my life, and nothing like this has ever happened
   before," Lambert said. "This is just--well, I've never seen anything
   like it."

   "Never, ever," he added.

   Malbert, who modestly describes himself in a newly discovered private
   journal--complete with diagrams of the female reproductive system,
   Polaroid photo collages of sawed-open human abdomens, and his own
   tiny, methodical handwriting--as a simple "collector," has already
   been on the front of Newsweek, Time, and more newspapers than local
   residents care to count. In fact, this longtime Michigan resident,
   whose work was until two weeks ago a complete secret to everyone but
   his more than two dozen bound and gagged victims, is soon to be the
   subject of a major profile on the popular TV program 48 Hours.

   Malbert, on the advice of his court-appointed lawyer, was unable to
   publicly comment on all the fuss over his hobby, but, in typical
   fashion, released a short, offbeat statement through his attorney.

   "This was nothing more than a way for me to while away the time," the
   statement read in part. "Honestly, I had never planned to share it
   with anyone. It did it purely for myself."

   Malbert's parents, unassuming folks residing in his hometown of Des
   Moines, IA, said word of their kooky son's newfound fame came as a
   "complete shock" to them.

   "When he was younger, he liked to horse around with [and mutilate] the
   animals around the farm," said mother Ethel Malbert, holding a
   third-grade photo of her son. "But that was just kid's stuff, you
   know. We never thought he would take it this far."

   "He was a quiet, normal boy," added Malbert, quipping that the head
   injury her son suffered when he was 12 might help explain his offbeat
   obsession.

   "In 25 years of forensic analysis, this is the first time I've come
   across anything so involved," said FBI agent Randolf McGrant, who was
   flown in from Detroit to file a report on Nippersink's new local
   celebrity. "And the scary part is that it may be many years before any
   of us know the full scope of what he's done."

   Describing Malbert's work as a combination of taxidermy, sculpture,
   canning, cross-stitch, and "a bizarre form of poetry," McGrant says
   it's unlikely the media spotlight on Nippersink's most famous
   eccentric will let up anytime soon.

   It seems this quiet hamlet has just earned a place in the history
   books, all thanks to that mild-mannered gentleman everyone simply knew
   as "that crazy ritual-murder guy."


   LOS ANGELES--As the summer movie season comes to an end, hundreds of
   thousands of deeply disappointed moviegoers converged on Los Angeles
   this weekend to demand that Hollywood finally honor their wish for a
   sequel to the Adam Sandler comedy Click.
     Sequel Hungry Poster

   "When I saw no Click II on my town's multiplex marquee this summer, I
   felt I had to speak out," said North Carolina resident Jim McNulty,
   who quit his job to travel to the nation's movie capital. "And I think
   I speak for virtually all Americans when I say we won't rest until we
   find out what happens next to nutty everyman Michael Newman and his
   family."

   The group People for the Continuation of Filmic Storylines, the
   largest of the many organizations in the pro- sequel grassroots
   movement, has so far gathered 31 million signatures from citizens for
   a petition mandating that Columbia Pictures, makers of Click, commence
   work on its sequel.

   "Columbia Pictures, hear the mandate of the people!" PCFS president
   Holly Sparks said in front of thousands of supporters gathered outside
   Hollywood's ArcLight Cinemas. "All those loose ends may have been tied
   up neatly by the end of the first Click film, but this country has
   been waiting far too long for those ends to loosen once again so that
   they can be retied in an equally humorous fashion."
   [4]Enlarge Image Sequel Hungry 

   The threat of no Click sequel brings out the masses.

   "The people of this country want to know what kind of crazy cameo Rob
   Schneider is going to make, and they want to know now," Sparks added
   to deafening cheers.

   According to Sparks, 2007 has been "egregiously lacking" in sequels,
   only providing movie-continuation fans with the films Spiderman 3,
   Shrek the Third, Pirates of the Caribbean: At Worlds End, Live Free or
   Die Hard, Ocean's 13, The Bourne Ultimatum, Hostel: Part II, Evan
   Almighty, Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer, Rush Hour 3,
   Resident Evil: Extinction, Mr. Bean's Holiday, Harry Potter and the
   Order of the Phoenix, and the follow-up to 2003's Daddy Day Care,
   Daddy Day Camp.

   "This summer was a tentative step in the right direction, but we have
   much, much further to go," Sparks said.

   PCFS, which is credited with catalyzing the soon-to-be-released films
   John Rambo and National Treasure: Book of Secrets, submitted a 30-page
   document to Columbia executives stipulating that Click II be set in
   Hawaii, star Queen Latifah as an antagonist with a more powerful
   remote than Sandler's, and feature an ending that clearly hints at a
   third Click movie.

   "At the very least, they must bring back that same hot jogger girl,
   but this time Sandler uses the remote's super-slow-motion button when
   she bends over," demonstrator Liz Ivory said. "That would be hilarious
   because everyone would recognize that as a similar joke from the first
   film. It's what America needs."

   According to polls conducted at the nation's movie houses, an
   overwhelming majority also want to see "what's her face" return as
   Sandler's wife, and Christopher Walken reprise his role as Morty,
   saying his character had some "pretty funny" quirks and lines they
   would enjoy watching him perform again in the exact same way. More
   than half said the comedic scenario they would most like to see play
   out in a Click sequel would be Sandler's device gaining the ability to
   mute multiple things at the same time.

   "In Click we found out what happens when you have a universal remote
   that controls the universe, but we have absolutely no idea what
   happens when that same universe has three to five additional
   characters, including a troublemaking young boy, and the protagonist
   gets a new job with new, more frustrating challenges," Kansas City, MO
   resident Kyle Ritenour said. "Also, America wants to know what the
   original Click would have been like with twice the budget and twice
   the CGI."

   Filmgoers also say that Click II will be a welcome reprieve from such
   new releases as No Reservations and Superbad, which have forced
   audiences to become acquainted with totally new and unfamiliar
   characters.

   "When I go to the movies, I just want to sit back and escape to a
   familiar world where everything makes sense and the only thing that
   changes is whether or not the lead actor decided to grow a beard for
   the second film," movie fan and frequent imdb.com commenter Steve
   Klein said. "Other than that, I don't care what happens."

   "Why didn't they shoot the second movie while they were shooting the
   first?" Klein added. "It would have saved everyone a whole lot of
   trouble, and would have kept me satisfied until the release of Saw IV,
   Alien vs. Predator 2, and the sequel to Spider-Man 3."


   CHICAGO--Residents of the Carney Gardens neighborhood on Chicago's
   South Side are opposing an effort by asshole real-estate developer
   Royce Messner to build a godawful $45 million strip mall and
   condominium complex in the crime-ridden shithole they call home.
   [4]Enlarge Image Shitty Neighborhood Protest 

   Residents march to protect their beloved, execrable squalor.

   The Save Carney Neighborhood Foundation, the most organized
   non-criminal group in this part of town, has filed a lawsuit in
   federal court to block the scheduled April 2008 groundbreaking. While
   halting the project would surely prevent a tragic urban-planning
   nightmare, it would also mean keeping the run-down, economically
   depressed community exactly as it is.

   "Carney is where I was born and raised, and  it remains a tight-knit
   community," said Foundation chairman Althea Hynes at a fundraising
   block party held Monday on a broken bottle- and condom-strewn stretch
   of Carney Avenue where the money-grubbing Messner wants to put a
   soulless indoor food court. "Lots of young kids still play in the
   empty lots around here."

   Messner, 54, a three-time Chicagoland "Builder of the Year" and
   all-time unbelievable scumbag who made his fortune in the 1990s
   converting public parks and cheap, blighted properties into high-rise
   luxury residences, is seeking to "revitalize" Carney Gardens by razing
   it and replacing it  with a damned cookie-cutter mixed
   commercial-residential development that would benefit no one who lives
   there now.
     Shitty Neighborhood Develop

   Unrepentant prick Messner.

   "What people like this can never get through their heads is the fact
   that progress isn't always painless," the rapacious bastard said, as
   if he were not talking about driving thousands of poor benighted fucks
   out of the place that, pestilential hellhole or not, is the only home
   they've ever been able to afford. "They complained about the
   expressway over their heads too, but its easy-on, easy-off access
   makes Carney Gardens a prime area for development. Once we get a few
   more chain restaurants in that area, the whole economy will turn
   around."

   A hellish 16-block stretch of burned-out buildings and howling
   poverty, Carney Gardens has never recovered from its economic  slide
   in the late 1960s. However, many of those who live in the human sewer
   say they can't just allow Messner to squat his bloated fat-cat ass
   over their neighborhood and dump a big concrete-and-glass yuppie turd
   onto everything they've ever known.

   "There's no way this city can allow some developer to just come in
   here and ruin our community," said liquor store owner Carlos Jimenez,
   demonstrating willful ignorance of Chicago history, the conditions
   immediately outside his door, and even his role in Carney Gardens'
   downfall.

   "Where are all these people supposed to go if they put up that mall
   here--Gary, Indiana?" said Hynes, as if living in a filthy, dangerous
   joke of a city was some kind of affront to her standards.

   Urban planning experts say that any opposition to the colossal asshole
   faces an uphill battle, as Carney Gardens has been a wart on the ass
   of Chicago for too long. Despite this, it seems that the determined
   Save Carney group will not abandon its hope of rejecting the only
   development proposal their hopeless pit will see in the next two
   decades.

   "Poor communities are at a disadvantage against this type of
   developer, who speaks the language of City Hall," said Jackson
   Eisenberg, an architecture professor at Loyola University who has
   studied the effects of short-sighted, profit-oriented renewal and
   gentrification on dozens of crap areas. "It's the same dilemma faced
   by the working-class [losers] in [rotten-ass] urban neighborhoods
   across America. As a [shrivel-dicked] businessman looking for a
   lucrative investment, [evil] Messner sees a ripe opportunity here."

   Mayor Richard M. Daley has yet to speak publicly about whether he will
   oppose Messner's human hamster cage, or allow the vile prick to wipe
   the bleeding wound that is Carney Gardens from existence.


   DALLAS--A western honeybee measuring barely one-quarter of an inch in
   length and weighing approximately .03 ounces triggered panic among a
   gathering of six fully-grown Homo sapiens during a picnic at Davis
   Park on Monday, witnesses reported.

   "Where is it--where is it?" said 44-year-old general manager Charles
   Freid, who has been described by his coworkers and business rivals as
   "ruthless," after the bee happened to fly in his general direction.
   "Get it off me! Is it on me?"
   [4]Enlarge Image Single Bee 

   Dallas' Davis Park on Monday afternoon, still abandoned hours after
   the bee enounter. Inset: the bee.

   "Jesus!" added Freid, screaming and flailing his arms as he raced to
   his car, got inside, and locked the doors.

   The college-educated humans, all of whom are not allergic to bee-sting
   venom and possess both cerebral and muscular capacities several orders
   of magnitude beyond that of the insect, proceeded to retreat in abject
   fright from its half-millimeter stinger, which, when used, causes a
   twinge of discomfort followed by mild irritation and kills the bee.

   According to entomologists at the University of Texas at Dallas, the
   Apis mellifera was most likely trying to pollinate a nearby cluster of
   dandelions and was not, as alleged by 50-year-old attorney Georgia
   Sakko, who has twice endured the pain of childbirth and successfully
   battled breast cancer, "out to get us."

   "Don't make it angry--don't make it angry!" Sakko said. "Is it in my
   hair? I feel something in my hair. Somebody get it out. Get it out!"

   Airline pilot Mike Grunwold, 49, who is approximately 1,224 times the
   size of the bee, said that he was "certain" the bee had landed on
   Sakko's back. Fiber tests on Sakko's clothing later found no traces of
   a bee's presence, but did reveal a small piece of lint and matted hair
   that may have resembled an insect at a distance and in certain lights.

   Civil engineer, marathon runner, and Gulf War veteran Scott Fogel, 39,
   briefly attempted to use force against the bee's non-aggressive
   actions, waving it away with a paper plate. After accidently upending
   a container of potato salad, which caused the bee to suddenly swerve,
   Fogel leaped back several feet and dashed for cover behind a trash
   can.

   "They're attracted to sweat," Fogel said. "It makes them want to kill.
   Just try to keep as far away from it as you can."

   After the bee seemingly disappeared, the humans--members of a species
   that has crossed an Ice Age land bridge from Asia to North America,
   domesticated the wolf, built the pyramids, and landed a manned vehicle
   on the surface of the moon--walked cautiously back to the picnic area.

   "I think it's gone," personal trainer Marcus Weller, 32, said. "Thank
   God."

   A few seconds later, the bee emerged from an overturned Coke can,
   prompting the humans to scream and retreat once more. They opted not
   to return to the area, abandoning several hundred dollars' worth of
   food and picnicking equipment. The brutalized parkgoers characterized
   the day as "totally ruined."

   The bee, which was reportedly never more than vaguely aware of the
   presence of other living organisms besides the blooming plants it
   sought, eventually returned to its hive without incident.

   A-Rod

   DENVER--Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez found a way to inject
   some excitement into baseball and make the slow month of October
   interesting last Sunday when he announced that he would opt out of his
   quarter-of-a-billion dollar contract with New York in order to become
   a free agent this offseason.

   The unusually slow month, the only interesting point of which was a
   seemingly unending array of baseball games--some of which even went
   past their usual nine-inning limit--was very nearly a complete
   disappointment for the league. Now, however, the clutch statement by
   Rodriguez has inspired fan interest once again and has many fans and
   members of the baseball media calling Rodriguez "a contemporary Mr.
   October."

   "Thank you, A-Rod," said ESPN's Peter Gammons, who left a baseball
   game in Denver between the Boston Red Sox and the Colorado Rockies
   immediately after hearing the news Sunday and flew to Legends Field in
   Tampa to get comments from Yankees front man Hank Steinbrenner. "We
   desperately needed something to get us out of the never-ending
   drudgery that is fall baseball. This is a real treat. "

   The announcement, made during the late innings of what thankfully and
   at long last turned out to be the final game of the 2007 season, came
   as a welcome respite to many. For the past month, baseball fans around
   the nation endured the interminable and repetitive process of
   determining the two league champions, followed by the predictable
   coronation of one overall champion.

   "A-Rod's decision about free agency is what I have been waiting for
   all October," Boston resident Nat Boyle said. "Would A-Rod forfeit the
   remaining $91 million on his contract? Would the Texas Rangers be
   responsible for subsidizing $30 million of his salary? I mean, ever
   since I was a kid, that's what October has been all about."

   Boyle's statement echoed the sentiments of millions and millions of
   fans watching the final baseball game on television, who, following
   Rodriguez's disclosure of his future plans were delighted by endless
   commentary on the situation by Fox's Joe Buck and Tim McCarver.

   According to viewers, both Buck and McCarver thankfully talked for
   inning after exhilarating inning about what team Rodriguez might play
   for next year, what he must have been thinking to walk away from a $30
   million annual salary, and what his decision meant for the future of
   the New York Yankees--a team that was not playing baseball at the time
   of the announcement and is not scheduled to play another professional
   baseball game until April 2008.

   "I was dozing off there in the eighth [inning] right after I think
   some guy hit a home run to bring us within one run of tying," said
   Colorado resident Russ Gamble, who was in attendance at Coors Field at
   the time of the announcement. "But then my buddy nudged me, told me
   the news about A-Rod, and I was like, 'Man, this is fucking
   incredible!' I was literally on the edge of my seat thinking about
   where he might end up in 2008. Cubs? Tigers? Red Sox? Oh man, if I
   were the Red Sox, A-Rod would be my number-one priority."

   Added Gamble: "Someday, I can tell my kid that I was at some baseball
   game when [Rodriguez's agent] Scott Boras sent an e-mail to the
   Associated Press saying that A-Rod had just opted out of the final
   three years on his 10-year, $252 million contract."

   According to other fans in attendance, the entire stadium was "simply
   electric" from the moment of Rodriguez's announcement until the last
   out of the game, at which point many stated they became "extremely
   depressed" upon the realization that Rodriguez had very little chance
   of ending up in a Rockies uniform.

   However, no matter where he eventually plays, Rodriguez's October
   legacy is now assured.

   "Two things you can always bank on in October," ESPN's Baseball
   Tonight host Tim Kurkjian said. "One, baseball is thankfully almost
   over. And two, Alex Rodriguez will always be available to provide the
   fans with the kind of off-field heroics for which he has become so
   famous. Now, his contract belongs to the ages."


   GRAND PLAINS, NE--A tight-knit rural Midwestern farming community
   commemorated the demonization of homosexuality Sunday with its annual
   Gay Shame Parade, a three-decade-old tradition that has become a
   cornerstone of the town's cultural identity.
   [4]Enlarge Image Small Town 

   The second-place float in this year's parade cruises down Grand
   Plains' picturesque Main Street.

   "Every year, the whole town turns out to enjoy Nebraska's famous
   summer sunshine, sample foods, browse the craft bazaar, and shame
   homosexuals for their repulsive, decadent behavior," said Frank
   Mitchell, mayor of Grand Plains, NE and parade marshal. "This year was
   our biggest turnout yet. Everybody had so much fun ostracizing the
   gays."

   The parade featured the usual assemblage of police cruisers, fire
   trucks, antique cars, and farm equipment, which local residents had
   draped in red-white-and-blue banners that read "Burn in the Eternal
   Flames of Hell!" City Councilman Fred Brandeen, this year's "Jesus,"
   entertained children by making mock finger-wagging gestures of
   admonishment and passing out buttons bearing the parade's traditional
   slogan: "NO!" Members of the Grand Plains Area Wives Association
   followed behind with a 15-foot hand-sewn banner, cosponsored by
   Jerry's Auto Body, which read: "GPAWA and Jerry's Cringe To Think What
   You're Putting Your Family Through."

   Organized every year by the Grand Plains City Council and a coalition
   of area churches, the Gay Shame Parade has been an annual event here
   since 1977, the year that citizens first became aware of gay people's
   existence.

   "To see a whole community rally together like this around a good
   cause--it's really an inspiration," said Ellen Lundblom, a mother of
   four enjoying the festivities with her youngest son, first-time
   reveler Timmy, 3. "If I were a lesbian, this would have really made me
   feel awful about myself."

   "My favorite part was the balloons," Timmy Lundblom said. "They had
   all different colors of angry frowny-faces on them."

   The event got off to a rousing start with the Grand Plains High School
   Cougars marching band playing such classics as "The Star-Spangled
   Banner" and "Onward, Christian Soldiers." The mood grew palpably more
   sober during the middle portion of the procession, as members of the
   Grand Plains Baptist Church marched with folded arms in stony,
   judgmental silence and stared at the spectators lining the streets as
   if to ask, "Are you gay?"

   The spirit of levity returned, however, toward the parade's finish,
   which featured balloon giveaways, a float contest, and an appearance
   by 6-year-olds Christopher Weiland and Courtney Wendt, who were
   crowned "Junior Mister and Miss Heterosexual" on Saturday. The parade
   concluded with a group reading of Leviticus 20:13.

   After the last bit of confetti fell, spectators praised the parade's
   highlights, including a float, presented by local Little League team
   the Tigers that depicts a mother, sitting alone with her head down on
   a kitchen table, crying. The first-place ribbon went to "Sodom and
   Gomorrah," a miniature version of the two Biblical cities engulfed in
   flames. The float's designer, McPhee's Department Store window dresser
   Bruce Carlson, was not able to accept his prize, however, as he was
   away visiting an aunt in Lawrence, KS for the weekend.

   Despite the pageantry, parade organizers stressed that the event has a
   serious message.

   "Everyone loves a parade," PTA chairwoman Agatha Buell said. "But it's
   about a lot more than the clowns, the decorations, and those Shriner
   fellows in their tiny cars. It's about making folks feel sickened by
   the deviant homosexual lifestyle, like God wants us to."

   Spectators couldn't help but be delighted by the parade's surprise
   finale, when, after dutifully leading the marching band for the entire
   mile-long parade route, local music teacher Colin Atherton was marched
   past the county line and told never, ever to return.


   HOLLYWOOD--According to sources from every imaginable demographic
   across the United States, Canada, Europe, and the rest of the
   civilized world, Academy Award-winning actor and two-time People
   magazine "Sexiest Man Alive" George Clooney is looking good.
   [4]Enlarge Image George Clooney 

   Clooney looking, as always, good.

   "I saw him on the cover of Vanity Fair, clean shaven, and he was
   looking good," Austin-area film and TV buff David Haas said Monday.
   "Then I saw him on the cover of GQ with a few days' growth, and he was
   still looking good. He's been looking good since he was Dr. Doug Ross
   on ER, and he'll probably be looking good for his next 20 roles."

   "I wish I looked one tenth as good as he's looking," Haas added.

   Clooney - whose steely gaze and easygoing personality have
   consistently captivated millions around the globe, across all
   categories of race, religion, class, gender, and sexual orientation -
   has for the past 25 years attained the highest possible scores in
   every known measure of physical, psychological, and spiritual
   attractiveness.

   A recent poll conducted by the Pew Research Center revealed that 18
   percent of respondents described Clooney as looking "distinguished,"
   11 percent found him looking "sharp," and 3 percent found him looking
   "square-jawed and rugged, yet stately and reserved, as one would
   expect a baron or king to look."

   The poll had no statistical margin of error.

   "When you think of George Clooney, the first thing you think is
   'sexy,'" said Julia Allison, editor-at-large for Star magazine. "The
   second thing you think is 'hunky,' and the third thing is 'dishy.'
   Then you think that, even if he were to get into a disfiguring
   accident, he would probably still come out with a face too dreamy for
   words. I love you, George Clooney."

   Whether viewing Clooney in a meticulously posed portrait by famed
   celebrity photographer Annie Leibowitz, in a candid photo toweling off
   his tousled hair near a pool, or in a paparazzi snapshot emerging from
   a grocery store, modern science remains unable to quantify just how
   phenomenally attractive the universally beloved Kentucky native
   actually is.
   [5]Enlarge Image George Clooney 

   Christ, how can you resist this guy?

   "The subject's masculine yet disarmingly friendly features, from what
   we have been able to determine, do not appear to be constricted by the
   laws of physics," said Princeton University geneticist Dr. Janet
   Hargrove, whose exhaustive, decade-long study of Clooney's appearance
   concluded that the 46-year-old has only gotten better-looking with
   time. "From his modest beginnings as George Burnett, the long-haired
   repairman on the 1980s sitcom The Facts of Life, onward through his
   sexy ascent to Hollywood leading man, his facial features have defied
   the Second Law of Thermodynamics by being impervious to entropy."

   Hargrove continued, "Unlike most carbon-based organisms, which will,
   over time, succumb to the ravages of cellular decomposition and
   genetic degradation, Clooney, with his puppy-dog eyes and
   salt-and-pepper hair, has aged like a fine wine."

   The multitalented actor-director-producer-humanitarian has further
   impressed audiences and critics alike by choosing his projects
   judiciously, working on films with artistic integrity and social
   merit, and lending his A-list status to high-profile charity work. His
   down-to-earth persona and deep belief in equality for all--as
   evidenced on the set of Three Kings, where he came to blows with
   director David O. Russell over the treatment of an extra--only adds to
   his overwhelming charisma. Plus, sources agree, he has this little
   thing he does with his eyebrow that is just adorable.

   "Just look at the guy," Center for Media Studies director Robert Kubey
   said. "That jaw, those eyes. And he's not just some pretty face--he's
   a very talented actor. Even I would probably follow him to the end of
   the earth if he asked me to, and I've been happily married for 14
   years."

   Despite the mounting scientific evidence and overwhelming public
   sentiment, some continue to disagree with the assessment that Clooney
   is looking good.

   "Looking good?" Nutley, NJ resident Laura Fine said. "You must be
   kidding. Did you see Ocean's Thirteen? He's looking better than ever."

   Clooney, in typical humble fashion, had no comment on this story.


   CAPE CANAVERAL, FL--Despite having never visited outer space before in
   his life and being completely free from the everyday demands of work,
   family, and gravity, space tourist Dick Knowles spent his entire
   19-day, $7 million vacation holed up inside the space shuttle
   Atlantis, sources reported Monday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Space Tourist 

   What Knowles did during his summer vacation: drift over Earth in a
   cramped space shuttle.

   An increasingly popular destination among dozens of American, Russian,
   and Chinese travelers each year, space is quickly acquiring a
   reputation for its infinite number of attractions and sights. However,
   according to friends and family members speaking for the first time
   since Knowles' trip in June, the 47-year-old billionaire investor
   never once ventured more than a few feet outside his oxygen-filled
   cabin.

   "What's the point of training for months and traveling 3 million miles
   if you're just going to sit around some orbital craft all day?" friend
   and entrepreneur Jeffrey Plotnick said. "I hear that the universe is a
   great place for exploring. For all he did, Dick might as well have
   stayed home in Texas."

   "He didn't even visit the moon, for Christ's sake," Plotnick added.
   "Who goes to space and doesn't visit the moon?"
   [5]Enlarge Image Spacecraft 

   Atlantis

   Knowles, who reportedly spent his first day in space recovering from
   "severe jet lag," and most of his second day trying to make contact
   with relatives back home, is believed to have seen only 9.23 x 10-18
   of what the Milky Way galaxy alone has to offer during his
   interstellar stay.

   Attorney and golfing partner Steven Margolin said he was also
   disappointed to learn that Knowles dined on prepackaged meals of
   thermostabilized chicken and dehydrated cheese rather than sampling
   the local cuisine.

   "Do you know what he said his favorite part of the trip was? Gazing at
   the Earth," Margolin said. "Not going to Mars, or flying through an
   asteroid belt, or even checking out one of those black holes, but
   'gazing at the Earth.' Way to broaden your horizons, pal."

   Though Knowles told friends back home that he was repeatedly warned of
   the dangers of journeying outside the shuttle, many, such as heiress
   and art collector Lucy DeWilde, believe he could have "veered off the
   beaten path" on occasion.

   "Why travel if you're going to be too scared to try anything fun?"
   DeWilde  said. "You shouldn't be foolish or take unnecessary risks,
   but what's the harm in an innocent little space walk?"

   When Knowles' brother Larry picked him up from the Kennedy Space
   Center, he expected to be regaled with exciting and fantastic stories
   from Dick's adventures. Instead, he was shocked to learn that Knowles
   failed to meet or interact with anyone during his vacation who was not
   also from Earth.

   "I had all these questions about the universe I was hoping Dick would
   be able to answer when he got back, but he didn't seem to know what I
   was talking about half the time," Larry Knowles said. "The weirdest
   part is that when you ask Dick about his trip, he says he had the time
   of his life."

   "To each his own, I guess," he added.


   MILL RUN, PA--In a town where residents are still in shock over last
   Sunday's brutal mass slaying, in which a mentally disturbed man shot
   17 men, women, and children in Main Street's St. John The Baptist
   Church before turning his shotgun on himself, last night's County
   League baseball game against longtime rival Uniontown was completely
   ineffective in mending the hurt and despair felt by those in the area.
   [4]Enlarge Image Sports Unable 

   According to those in attendance, even after the supposed natural
   healing powers of pitches, hits, stolen bases, ground balls, and
   bunts, the shooting--the first in Mill Run in over 10 years and easily
   the most deadly criminal incident in Mill Run's history-- remained
   fresh and raw in the town's collective consciousness. Mill Run lost
   the game 7-4, though many at the game say they were still in shock
   over the shooting and were therefore not aware of the final score.

   "I still miss my brother and my sister-in-law," still-shaken hardware
   store owner John Geary said after the ultimately non-therapeutic
   sporting event. "God, I miss them so much. Even that double by Josh
   [Thurman] in the fifth [inning] really didn't make me feel any better
   about some madman shooting them. In fact, I felt worse, because for
   the brief second I cheered, I almost forgot that I'll never see Randy
   and Melissa again, that Father Corrigan isn't supposed to ever regain
   consciousness, and that some of the children in this community are now
   parentless."

   "Cheering for a stupid double in a stupid baseball game after
   everything that happened," Geary added. "What kind of idiot am I? Why
   did they even play this game?"

   Mill Run mayor Frank Shultz said the game was not canceled due to his
   mistaken belief  in the "healing power of sports" to "make everything
   better."
     Sports Unable Jump

   "Obviously, I couldn't have been more wrong," Shultz, who doesn't plan
   on attending another sporting event for a long time, told reporters
   after the game. "And I officially apologize to all the citizens, who
   need professional help, spiritual guidance, and each other's love and
   company far more than they needed a stupid baseball game."

   "Everyone wants everything to go back to the way it was, but seeing as
   how a man killed 17 people in our church and then shot himself, I
   think I would much rather admit that things are completely abnormal at
   the moment than pretend that I care if we make the playoffs," said
   resident Diane Ward, 47, who said her shock and grief were in no way
   blunted by a crisply executed double play in the seventh inning.

   Locals reportedly watched in shocked silence throughout the entire
   game, rarely reacting to the play on the field, and never with much
   enthusiasm. No one interviewed afterwards believed that the sight of
   the team taking the field was symbolic of the town's will to "continue
   on," took any solace whatsoever in the collective singing of the
   national anthem, or thought the moment of silence before the game's
   first pitch was "moving," considering that it occurred at the trivial
   and relatively unimportant site of Town Baseball Field #5 and not a
   more dignified location.

   In fact, attendees said, at no point did anyone suffering from the
   pain and despair created by the massive murder-suicide, a tragedy that
   will forever alter this town's way of life, feel any less miserable
   because of the nine-inning baseball game.

   "It's just baseball," said Tracey Wallace, 11, who lost both parents
   and her older brother in the slaying and reportedly had to be sedated
   to stop her convulsive sobbing after she was asked if she would like
   to throw out a "healing" first pitch. "Not Daddy alive again. Not
   Mommy back. Just baseball."

   The baseball game's inability to heal the town came as a shock to many
   in the sports and sports-entertainment media. According to every
   single ESPN correspondent, Sports Illustrated editor, and every
   nationally known sports columnist, over the last six years the
   spectacle of sports has invariably allowed individuals, communities,
   and entire nations to almost instantly heal, and in some cases,
   apparently skip altogether the normal years-long grieving process that
   accompanies a monumental tragedy.

   "I don't know what's wrong with these people," Daily News columnist
   Mike Lupica said on Sunday's edition of ESPN's The Sports Reporters.
   "Maybe they just didn't understand what was supposed to happen. First,
   the group experience of watching the game was supposed to show the
   town how strong they were/are as a community. Second, with that
   newfound strength, it was their role to realize they could overcome
   any type of tragedy as long as they have one another. Third, while the
   game was going on, if they observed anything positive from the home
   team--a clutch hit, a home run, or a well-fielded ground ball--it was
   the duty of those in attendance to have the epiphany that their
   deceased loved ones were watching from above, cheering them on from
   heaven, and that everyone on Earth could and should now move on."

   "And most of all, those in attendance would leave the game completely
   healed so that everyone could see how beautiful it was that, with the
   aid of the eternal magic of baseball, this town was capable of
   healing," Lupica added. "Mill Run screwed that one up. I think these
   people are letting this whole church murder thing get in the way of
   what's really important."

   Mill Run resident Tommy Shroyer, who was in the church at the time of
   the shooting, disagreed with Lupica, saying, "Believe me, I didn't
   feel that anybody was watching us from above. I felt really sad, like
   I was doing something stupid, because if they were watching they were
   probably wondering what the fuck we were doing at a baseball game."

   According to Denver Post sports columnist Woody Paige, the area
   doesn't need time to reflect upon the tragedy.

   "These sad sacks simply need more sports," Paige wrote in a piece that
   received over 500 positive e-mails from fans nationwide in less then
   two hours. "I recommend the town's mayor get his town healed by adding
   20 more County League baseball games, moving up the start date of the
   high-school football season, and bringing players from the Pittsburgh
   Steelers into the school gymnasium to play a fun and heartwarming game
   of mandatory celebrity donkey basketball. Sports is going to heal
   these people whether they want it to or not."


   SAN FRANCISCO--Open-air preacher "Brother Sam" Hilson rescued more
   than 300 of God's children from appreciating a cloudless spring day at
   Golden Gate Park Tuesday by informing them of their sins and the swift
   approach of Judgment Day.
   [4]Enlarge Image Street Evangelist 

   "Brother Sam" Hilson rescues countless souls each weekend from the
   grips of a leisurely afternoon.

   A former building superintendent, Hilson said he was directly called
   by God to bring Christianity to San Francisco's unholy cyclists, tai
   chi practitioners, and dog walkers.

   "All of you will burn in hellfire, so sayeth the Lord," Hilson said to
   a stroller-bound toddler and her picnicking parents.

   For nearly five years, his highly personalized, one-on-one style of
   lay sermonizing has been among the most effective in the city, as
   virtually all park-goers within Hilson's range of vision are delivered
   from their conversations or badminton games within minutes.

   After telling a novel-reading Berkeley student that there was "no book
   but the Good Book," Hilson bore witness to a woman strolling by in a
   sundress.

   "Harlot, dare ye bare your shoulders when the Rapture is nigh?" Hilson
   said.

   Many of those who have been singled out by Hilson confirm the
   attention had a direct impact on their lives.

   "It was my first weekday off in a while, so I thought I'd enjoy the
   nice weather, maybe head down to the waterfront too," said Russ
   Tiderington, 25, who, according to Hilson, "sashay[ed] [his] hips like
   a painted Jezebel." "But I decided to go home and catch up on some
   chores instead."

   Hilson's bullhorn, which he often employs to bring recreation-seekers
   into the light of God's grace and drown out their iPod music, forced
   one-third to one-half of the souls to spurn the path they had chosen
   for that afternoon.

   At one point, Hilson ministered to a family of Indian-Americans, whom
   he mistakenly identified as "Muslim demon-worshippers."

   His photo-collage display of aborted fetuses, Hitler, Oui magazine
   centerfolds from the 1980s, and the rock band KISS spared at least 10
   others the temptation of the fresh April breeze.

   "Someday our jealous and vengeful God will make you regret watching
   your aerobics sex tapes!" Hilson told a group of  kite flyers, who
   rapidly walked away from him as he strayed momentarily in their
   direction. "Your kites may reach the sky, but they cannot get you into
   Heaven! Only Jesus can! Jesus is the One True Kite!"

   Though he is not formally recognized by any church, it is estimated
   that Hilson has reached nearly 75,000 wayward souls on college
   campuses, at state fairs, and in bus terminals around the Bay Area.


   TIPTON, IN--Wes Mendic, a grown man who works at a pool-supply store
   and lives all by himself, finds solace in a series of sad, piddling
   little activities when he is feeling down, he reported from his tiny
   one- bedroom apartment Tuesday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Area Man Sad Routine 

   Mendic added that, if his cheer-up routine fails to cheer him up by 8
   p.m., he vigorously masturbates to Internet pornography and falls
   asleep.

   "Whenever I'm down in the dumps, rather than wallow in my troubles, I
   try to do things that will get my mind off them," Mendic, 28, said.
   "Like, the first thing I always do is turn on all the lights in my
   apartment, even during the day. It just makes everything brighter."

   "It's amazing what something as small as lifting up your kitchen
   window, leaning your head out, and looking outside for a few minutes
   can do for your spirits," Mendic added.

   Mendic also indulges in a succession of "fun" tasks, including putting
   fresh, clean sheets and pillowcases on his bed; using his Dustbuster
   to thoroughly vacuum his two-by-three-foot welcome mat, the only
   section of carpeting he owns; and dumping out the contents of his coin
   bank, stacking the coins into small piles by denomination, and then
   placing them one by one back into the coin bank.

   "Something that always gives me a chuckle is going to my computer and
   loading up Bobby McFerrin's 'Don't Worry, Be Happy,'" said Mendic, who
   often watches the four-minute music-video clip several times in a row,
   staring intently at the screen and silently mouthing the lyrics in one
   of the saddest displays you will ever see. "It's funny, it's catchy,
   and it really helps remind you not to take this crazy business called
   life too seriously. I remember it used to cheer me up back when I was
   in college too. Good times."
   [5]Enlarge Image Area Man socks 

   Mendic seriously claims chores like sock-folding make him feel better
   because he's "accomplishing something."

   If his spirits are still low by lunchtime, Mendic said that he can
   always count on the simple task of preparing himself a tasty meal to
   help shake off the blues. His self-proclaimed "house specialty" is
   nachos.

   "I only make them a couple times a month as a treat, so they'll still
   seem special," said Mendic, arranging a layer of tortilla chips on a
   paper plate, then taking a Kraft single, carefully tearing it into sad
   little strips, and sprinkling it onto the chips as if it were shredded
   cheddar and not an individually wrapped slice of American cheese.
   "They taste real good, and only use up like one or two singles, so
   there's always enough for the next nacho time."

   When Mendic feels low, "comfort food" takes on new, asinine meaning,
   as virtually any kind of two-dimensional food, including toast,
   pancakes, or hamburgers, will inevitably find itself embossed with a
   jam, syrup, or mustard smiley face.

   Mendic also started a tradition called "mini-Thanksgiving," which he
   holds approximately once a month, and which consists of microwaved
   turkey medallions, canned cranberry sauce, and a paper plate.

   "It's great because it reminds me of spending time with friends and
   family," Mendic said.

   The pathetic rituals don't end there. During his afternoon shower--a
   second daily shower he takes to "relax and not have to focus on
   getting clean, like the morning shower"--Mendic reads the labels of
   his shampoo and conditioner out loud in a Don Pardo-esque voice, and
   even plays a pitiful little game in which he scans the bottle's
   instructions and ingredient write-ups for all 26 letters of the
   alphabet. And as he towels off and dresses, he dances around to the
   Paul Simon song "You Can Call Me Al," flailing his arms and shaking
   his legs with a mixture of genuine enthusiasm and lack of coordination
   that would make you want to cry.

   Despite his passion for bizarre little rituals that apparently keep
   him from tumbling into complete despair, over time Mendic has been
   forced to retire some of his habits, such as, for the love of Christ,
   playing Minesweeper.

   "While I played it, I'd pretend I was on a secret mission from the
   CIA," said Mendic, who would bob his head while clicking away on his
   mouse in a ridiculously intense manner. "It would always pump me up.
   Until one day, I beat Expert [level] in 108 seconds, and I knew I
   would never top that record, so it stopped being fun."

   Other heartbreakingly tragic routines Mendic cheers himself up with
   include fake- laughing, done in the hopes that it will trigger real,
   spontaneous laughter; throwing himself a "solo party"; poring over his
   high school yearbooks and rereading old e-mail exchanges from several
   years ago; calling his mother; sitting on his bed in front of the
   mirror and pretending he's interviewing himself about his life story;
   and checking his iPod's "date last played" column on iTunes and trying
   to remember where he would have been when he last heard each song.


   ARLINGTON, VA--An alarming new study published in the International
   Journal of Sexual Health reveals that casual sex, the practice of
   engaging in frequent, spontaneous sexual encounters with new and
   exciting partners, may only provide unimaginable pleasure and
   heart-pounding exhilaration for, at most, 25 to 30 years.

   "People who choose to participate in random, no-strings-attached
   lovemaking sessions with sexually adventurous strangers should be
   advised that this type of behavior is only incredibly liberating for
   the first quarter-century or so," said Dr. Loren Sullivan of Yale
   University, who coauthored the study on the long-term side effects of
   living out one's wildest fantasies on a semi-weekly basis. "Though
   sometimes it can be longer."
   [4]Enlarge Image Study Casual 

   This couple may be having fun now, but there could be cause for regret
   a quarter-lifetime later, researchers say.

   The study observed 100 sexually active volunteers who were not tied
   down by dull, passionless relationships and were therefore able to
   have sex with whomever they wanted, whenever they wanted. A control
   group of individuals who were married or had otherwise allowed their
   erogenous zones to fall into complete and utter numbness was also
   monitored for comparison.

   Researchers found that those who regularly achieved mind-blowing
   orgasms without the expectation of commitment often experienced mild
   feelings of loneliness and a passing regret after as little as three
   decades of pure physical bliss free of emotional complication.

   "There's a troubling number of adults who spend their prime sexual
   years in complete coital abandon, then have nothing to show for it but
   dozens upon dozens of highly detailed erotic memories," Sullivan said.
   "They must be so empty inside, one would think."

   Other common, albeit latent, secondary effects noted in the study
   include mild disappointment and mid-afternoon crankiness, as well as a
   lingering need for additional casual sex. Researchers could not
   conclusively establish a link between anonymous, passionate trysts in
   nightclub bathrooms and these results, however, as a large portion of
   the polling group was found to be asymptomatic.

   One participant, California native Greg Pertzborn, told researchers he
   sometimes wonders if the 30 years he spent beneath a different
   gorgeous woman every night were worth the periodic flickers of
   gloominess he began experiencing at the age of 59.
   [5]Enlarge Image Study Casual Jump 

   "When I think back on the countless times I've had raw, almost bestial
   sex, indoors or outdoors, with one, sometimes two Asian women whose
   parents I'll never have to meet, I occasionally get a little down,"
   Pertzborn said. "God, what if I wasted my life having guilt-free,
   uninhibited, sensually explosive sex with anyone I wanted?"

   Sullivan and his team plan to continue the study, saying they expect
   to find that the unattached, sexually satisfied persons between the
   ages of 20 and 30 whom they have been monitoring will feel compelled
   to settle down with a single partner and begin discussing joint
   checking accounts "any day now."

   "Tragically, it's quite possible that many of these singles may never
   realize how miserable a lifetime of phenomenal, kinky sex can make
   them," said Sullivan, adding that recent evidence suggests such a
   healthy, rational realization could be further hindered by the
   experience of spontaneous oral sex behind the bushes at poolside
   cocktail parties.

   Although the study has not yet caused any perceptible reduction in the
   popularity of having casual sex, proponents of the report, like
   husband and father-of-four Howard Kehoe, say it provides proof that
   promiscuity is not "the endless carnal thrill-ride" it is often made
   out to be.

   "I am so thankful that I never acted on my natural impulses and
   engaged in a sweaty, toe-curling, life-affirming romp with that
   knockout I saw in the park last week," Kehoe said. "I may die having
   only caressed the naked, goose-pimpled flesh of two women on the
   entire planet, including my wife, but at least I know I'll never have
   to endure a burst of fleeting regret long after I've retired."

   "That's one sensation I never want to experience," Kehoe added.


   GAINESVILLE, FL--Although dolphins have long been celebrated for their
   high intelligence and for appearing to have a complex language, a team
   of researchers at the University of Florida reported Monday that these
   traits are markedly less evident on dry land.
   [4]Enlarge Image Study: Dolphins Not So Intelligent On Land 

   A dolphin performs poorly in a University of Florida land-based
   locomotion test.

   According to study researchers, a group of 25 bottlenose dolphins
   removed from their holding tanks failed 11 exercises designed to test
   their basic cognitive abilities and reasoning skills.

   "The dolphins were incapable of recognizing and repeating simple
   gestures," said study co-author Dr. Scott Lindell. "Their non-verbal
   communications were limited to a rapid constriction and expansion of
   the blowhole, various incomprehensible fin motions, and heavy tremors
   while they lay prone on the lab table."

   After capturing the dolphins from the ocean, Lindell and his
   colleagues tagged them and placed them under the intense, high-wattage
   lights of a moisture-proof lab. The researchers then administered an
   extensive battery of tests designed to measure everything from the
   dolphins' self-awareness to their aptitude for writing and reading
   comprehension.

   "Dolphins have a popular reputation for being excellent
   communicators," Lindell said. "But our study group offered only three
   types of response to every question we posed: a nonsensical, labored
   wheezing, an earsplitting barrage of unintelligible high-pitched
   shrieks, and in extreme cases, a shrill, distressed scream."

   Even the dolphins' proven ability to navigate through a form of sonar
   called echolocation was ineffective on land.

   "The military has claimed great success in training these mammals,
   utilizing their echolocation skills to detect mines that have been
   placed underwater," said Lindell, who conducted a similar experiment
   in a concrete parking lot. "We were unable to replicate this finding
   ourselves."

   Lindell added: "In most cases, the dolphins succeeded in finding land
   mines only when we placed them directly on top of the mines."

   In another test, several pounds of mackerel were placed on the ground,
   separated from the test dolphins by only 20 feet of concrete. The
   dolphins were unable to reach the food and feed themselves.

   Despite their failures in the initial series of tests, the animals
   were given further opportunities to demonstrate their intelligence on
   land. The dolphins were unable to display novel behaviors, use a map
   to pinpoint their location on campus (spatial reasoning), or complete
   a simple obstacle course and wall climb.

   "Their learning curve was actually negative," Lindell said. "The more
   time we gave them to complete basic land-based tests, the more pitiful
   their efforts became, with many of them opting to bask in the sun
   rather than perform a simple task."

   "In some cases," Lindell added, "the dolphins appeared to be looking
   directly into our eyes, as if pleading with us to help them perform
   better in these tests."

   Many scientists believe these findings may help to explain why
   dolphins, for all their vaunted intelligence, have never developed
   technology or agriculture, or harnessed the power of fire--skills
   still exclusively in the domain of Homo sapiens.

   Said Lindell: "Their failure is a great disappointment to all of us
   who once felt an intelligence-based kinship with these majestic
   animals."


   CHAPEL HILL, NC--A field study released Monday by the University of
   North Carolina School of Public Health suggests that Iraqi citizens
   experience sadness and a sense of loss when relatives, spouses, and
   even friends perish, emotions that have until recently been identified
   almost exclusively with Westerners.
   [4]Enlarge Image Study Iraqis 

   An Iraqi study group reacts to a car bombing. Researchers (not
   pictured) gathered data from a fortified observation booth.

   "We were struck by how an Iraqi reacts to the sight of the bloody or
   decapitated corpse of a family member in a not unlike an American, or
   at the very least a Canadian, would," said Dr. Jonathan Pryztal, chief
   author of the study. "In addition to the rage, bloodlust, and hatred
   we already know to dominate the Iraqi emotional spectrum, it appears
   that they may have some capacity, however limited, for sadness."

   Though Pryztal was quick to add that more detailed analysis is needed,
   he said the findings cast some doubt on long-held assumptions about
   human nature in that region.

   "Contrary to conventional wisdom, it seems that Iraqis do indeed
   experience at least minor feelings of grief when a best friend or a
   grandparent is ripped apart by a car bomb or shot execution style and
   later unearthed in a shallow mass grave," Prytzal said. "Last
   December's suicide-bomb killing of 71 Shiites in Baghdad, for example,
   produced unexpected reactions ranging from crumpled, sobbing despair
   to silent, dazed shock."

   Iraqis have often been observed weeping and wailing in apparent
   anguish, but the study offers evidence indicating this may not be
   exclusively an outward expression of anger or a desire for revenge. It
   also provocatively suggests that this grief can possess an
   American-like personal quality, and is not simply a tribal lamentation
   ritual.
     Study Iraqis jump

   An Iraqi mother expressing American-like grief at the loss of her son.

   Said Pryztal: "When trying to understand the psychology of the Iraqi
   citizenry after four years of war, think of a small American town
   roiled by the death of a well-known high school football player."

   According to Pryztal, the intensity of the grief does not diminish if
   the mourner experiences multiple bereavements over time. "If a woman
   has already lost one child, the subsequent killings of other children
   will evoke similar responses," he said. "In the majority of cases we
   studied, it appeared as though those who lost multiple kids never
   actually got used to it."

   Though Pryztal expects the results of the study may be of some
   interest to students of Arab psychology, he did concede that the data
   may not be entirely accurate because it was gathered directly from
   Iraqis themselves.

   "Almost all the Iraqis we interviewed said the war had ruined their
   lives because of the incalculable loss of friends and family," Pryztal
   said. "But to be totally honest, these types of studies can be skewed
   rather easily by participant exaggeration."

   Psychologists and anthropologists have thus far largely discounted the
   study, claiming it has the same bias as a 1971 Stanford University
   study that concluded that many Vietnamese showed signs of
   psychological trauma from nearly a quarter century of continuous war
   in southeast Asia.

   "We are, in truth, still a long way from determining if Iraqis are
   exhibiting actual, U.S.-grade sadness," Mayo Clinic neuropsychologist
   Norman Blum said. "At present, we see no reason for the popular press
   to report on Iraqi emotions as if they are real."

   Pryztal said that his research group would next examine whether
   children in Sudan prefer playing with toys or serving as guerrilla
   fighters and killing innocent civilians.


   ANNAPOLIS, MD--Despite years of diplomatic stalemate in the Mideast
   crisis, Syrian officials appeared eager to mend troubled Arab-Israeli
   relations this week by participating in a second round of U.S.-led
   peace talks, which feature representatives from every country in the
   region, as well as a complimentary continental breakfast in the hotel
   lobby.

   "We are attending this conference in the interest of peace, and intend
   to take full advantage of the opportunities afforded by this historic
   summit," Syrian deputy foreign minister Faisal Mekdad said Tuesday. "I
   understand that a total of five different beverage options, including
   milk, tea, and assorted juices, will be available free of charge."
   [4]Enlarge Image Syria 

   Syrian delegates maintained their position on the so-called "Danish
   situation."

   Now in its second day, the summit has reportedly been a success for
   the Syrians, who described themselves as "optimistic" and "full" and
   are already pointing to a number of positive developments, including
   fresh pastries and a new policy of unlimited coffee refills.

   A number of observers applauded Syria's apparent commitment to peace
   after Syrian president Bashar al-Assad, who selected a raspberry
   Danish and small cup of vanilla yogurt sprinkled with granola from the
   ice-filled bin in the hotel reception area, laid out his country's
   goals for the five-day summit.

   "This is a chance for us to get something truly worthwhile out of the
   arduous peace process," al-Assad said. "Now is the time to put aside
   petty concerns and take advantage of this incredible generosity. The
   continental breakfast is only available for a limited time each
   morning, so we must be focused and diligent about getting down to the
   lobby before hotel staff remove all the doughnuts at 10:30."

   According to the State Department, the first day's
   discussions--centered around Palestinian statehood and security along
   Israel's border with the Gaza Strip--went relatively smoothly, though
   the Syrian delegation did not appear until 90 minutes after the
   scheduled 9 a.m. start. Upon their arrival, however, the Syrians
   introduced themselves to their international counterparts and, as a
   measure of goodwill, offered them croissants, small wedges of
   grapefruit, and toast with jelly packets.

   "We are encouraged by the Syrians' willingness to help promote freedom
   in the region," U.S. spokesman Sean McCormack said. "We just hope they
   will be ready to start talks before 10:31 tomorrow morning."

   The meetings were not without setbacks. Small arguments broke out
   sporadically throughout the day over the status of Jerusalem,
   Palestinian refugees, and the Kuwaiti ambassador taking the last three
   cream cheese packets.

   "We deserve unfettered access to the cream cheese," said the head of
   the Syrian parliament's foreign relations committee, Suleiman Haddad,
   addressing a group of delegates assembled near the milk and cream
   table. "This must not be taken away from us. It is unacceptable. What
   will we put on this bagel?"

   Tensions were relieved by some Syrian representatives who took a more
   conciliatory tone, pointing out that it's nearly impossible to find
   good bagels in their native country at all, while expressing hope that
   a more equitable cream cheese-sharing arrangement could be arrived at
   the following morning.
   [5]Enlarge Image Coffee 

   Syria's president and prime minister hold an emergency meeting near
   the coffee.

   In Tehran, meanwhile, Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who was
   not invited to the talks, was highly critical of the summit, claiming
   that the European-style breakfast was indicative of a pro-Israel bias.

   "It is quite obvious that the Annapolis summit will offer little real
   substance to those in attendance," Ahmadinejad said. "The little
   single-serving boxes of cereal are not even sizable enough to
   constitute a real meal."

   Nevertheless, many within the State Department said they were
   encouraged to witness a number of delegates working together to clean
   up a cup of spilled coffee. At one point, the Israeli prime minister
   even offered to give up extra napkins to Syria's president in order to
   stop the liquid from flowing over the side of the counter.

   In comments made to the Syrian state newspaper, Syrian prime minister
   Muhammad Naji al-Otari said he was confident there was even more to
   achieve during the conference.

   "I am pleased to report that there will be a variety of instant
   oatmeal flavors being offered in the near future," al-Otari said. "I
   am certainly looking forward to learning more about the apples and
   cinnamon, maple and brown sugar, and the plain oatmeal flavors."

   While the United States organized an opening-night gala to welcome the
   participating ambassadors, the Syrians did not attend the event,
   claiming they had to go to bed early in order to get plenty of sleep
   for some "very important business" they had to attend to at 7 a.m. the
   following day.


   WASHINGTON, DC--The National Anti- Quartering Association, America's
   foremost Third Amendment rights group, held its annual gala in
   Washington Monday to honor 191 consecutive years of advocating the
   protection of private homes and property against the unlawful boarding
   of military personnel.
   [4]Enlarge Image The National Anti-Quartering Association 

   "This is a proud day for quarters-owners everywhere," said the
   organization's president, Charles Davison, in his keynote address.
   "Year after year, we have sent a loud and clear message to the federal
   government and to anyone else who would attack our unassailable
   rights: Hands off our cottages, livery stables, and haylofts."

   The NAQA was created in 1816 in response to repeated violations of the
   Third Amendment during the War of 1812. The organization quickly grew
   in influence and cites its vigilance as the primary reason why the
   amendment has only been litigated once in a federal court since the
   Bill of Rights was ratified. The organization is also arguably the
   country's most powerful political lobby; every politician elected
   since 1866 has fully supported Third Amendment rights.

   "The framers of the Constitution provided the American people with the
   right to have their homes free of troops unless Congress mandates
   otherwise during a time of war," Davison said. "Thanks to our tireless
   efforts, six generations of civilians have never known the cruelty and
   duress of quartering unruly foot soldiers."

   Davison recalled the "dark days" of 1982, when the federal case of
   Engblom v. Carey threatened to strip Americans of their fundamental
   Third Amendment freedoms. The ruling by the Second Circuit Court of
   Appeals acknowledged that the State of New York had indeed violated
   the Third Amendment rights of the plaintiffs. The case, according to
   Davison, was "a chilling reminder of how even an established
   200-year-old right hangs by a slender thread."

   "I don't think people fully understand how close we came to completely
   losing such a basic right," Davison said. "If the Second Circuit had
   ruled otherwise, we'd be living in a world in which soldiers would be
   quartering amok upon our very hearthstones."

   Davison expressed pride in the NAQA's grassroots involvement at the
   local level, citing the association's direct-mailing campaigns and its
   fully staffed regional centers where citizens can report Third
   Amendment rights abuses. The NAQA also holds quartering-safety
   seminars for citizens interested in learning how to effectively defend
   their households against U.S. troops seeking shelter.

   Davison reiterated the organization's promise to oppose pro-quartering
   legislation should any ever be proposed.

   "Keep the fat hands of soldiers out of America's larders!" Davison
   said to rousing applause. He was quoting the NAQA's familiar slogan,
   which can be found on T-shirts, bumper stickers, and other merchandise
   sold on the group's website.

   Davison ended his address by warning of the dangers of the NAQA
   resting on its laurels.

   "Pro-quartering advocates are waiting for just the right moment to
   stick a bunch of troops in our homes," Davison said. "Well, I say to
   them that we will never allow this to happen. You can count on the
   true patriots of the NAQA to ensure that no chickens and livestock
   will be appropriated, and private stores of salt, brandy, candles, and
   vinegar will stay firmly where they belong: in civilian hands."

   The NAQA is known for its quick and aggressive mobilization when it
   believes Third Amendment rights are at risk, and has rushed to the
   defense of homeowners it believes are being illegally coerced into
   housing American soldiers. Last month, 200 NAQA members marched on a
   private residence in Fairfax, VA after receiving a tip that the owners
   were being victimized by three Navy seamen demanding prolonged
   quartering. They ended their demonstration, however, when it was
   discovered that the sailors were brothers on shore leave visiting
   their parents.

   Davison, 49, has headed the NAQA since January, replacing longtime
   president Lawrence Frost. Frost, 58, left the organization to chair
   the Citizens Committee for the Right to Drink, a 21st Amendment rights
   group committed to the continued legal status of alcohol for Americans
   of drinking age.


   CHICAGO--Producers of the long-running Chicago Public Radio program
   This American Life announced Monday that they have completed their
   comprehensive 12-year survey of life as a modern upper-middle-class
   American.
   [4]Enlarge Image Ira Glass 

   Ira Glass compares completing the series to finding out he is a
   relative of composer Philip Glass.

   In what cultural anthropologists are calling a "colossal achievement"
   in the study of white-collar professionals, the popular radio show has
   successfully isolated all 7,442 known characteristics of college
   graduates who earn between $62,500 and $125,000 per year and feel
   strongly that something should be done about global warming.

   "We've done it," said senior producer Julie Snyder, who was personally
   interviewed for a 2003 This American Life episode, "Going Eclectic,"
   in which she described what it's like to be a bilingual member of the
   ACLU trained in kite-making by a Japanese stepfather. "There is not a
   single existential crisis or self-congratulatory epiphany that has
   been or could be experienced by a left-leaning agnostic that we have
   not exhaustively documented and grouped by theme."

   Added Snyder, "We here at public radio couldn't be more pleased with
   ourselves."

   The final episode, which explored the universal tribulations of having
   to live with roommates again in one's mid-30s after a divorce,
   provided an apt bookend for the project. The completed work is
   expected to be an indispensable source of information for years to
   come about the thoughts and tastes of bespectacled cynics prone to
   neuroses who are actually doing just fine.
     Topics Covered

   This American Life host and producer Ira Glass began work on the
   project in 1995 in Chicago, where he found himself inspired by and
   catering to an audience of professionals who dine out frequently and
   have a hard time getting angry. Glass and his team of producers,
   writers, and interns set about the exhausting task of gathering all
   available information on a range of subjects from minor skirmishes
   with the law to the rewards of occasionally talking to poor people.
   The raw data was then analyzed, deconstructed, reconstructed,
   re-deconstructed, organized under a broad philosophical title, and
   interspliced with musical interludes by rock duo They Might Be Giants.

   Though This American Life is now lauded as the definitive source for
   material about getting an autistic teenager admitted to Harvard, its
   early run was marked by painful trial-and-error, according to producer
   Alex Blumberg.

   "At first, we were getting a lot of stories from recovered drug
   addicts and East African refugees living in the States, which had
   their compelling elements but came off a bit cloying," Blumberg said.
   "But then we realized that if we had overeducated people with voices
   rather unsuitable for radio narrate the stories with clever analogies
   and accessible morals, the whole thing would come off far less
   depressing."

   Blumberg said that the turning point came in 1997, when producers
   discovered a group of inner-city schoolchildren inadvertently teaching
   an important lesson to their attractive, suburban-raised teacher about
   what makes us human.

   Also aiding the study were the many contributors to This American
   Life, who took time from their best-selling essay-writing careers to
   donate personal anecdotes about dropping out of prestigious art
   schools, taking harrowing but poignant childhood vacations to the
   Grand Canyon, and the unique challenges of growing up in families
   supportive of their homosexuality.

   On Sunday, writer and contributing editor Sarah Vowell called the
   project's end "oddly anticlimactic," but questioned whether work was
   actually complete because the show had not yet addressed the subject
   of "Things Ending."

   "Seeing this project through to its culmination was equally satisfying
   and strange," said Vowell, speaking at a book signing in Colonial
   Williamsburg dressed as Betsy Ross. "I feel not unlike the early
   Pilgrims, who, standing atop Plymouth Rock after a long and arduous
   sea voyage, reflected on their journey, perhaps thinking to themselves
   'For God's sake--doesn't anybody have anything to eat in this
   settlement?'"

   Glass, who personally contributed over 2,000 anecdotes from his own
   life for documentation, called the project's conclusion the "end of an
   era."

   "When we finished, I have to tell you, I felt something I never
   expected: a profound sense of contentment--maybe even relief," Glass
   said. "Afterwards, the other producers and I sat around for a long
   while, remarking on how interesting and strange it was to finally
   complete the study, and how perhaps it is, in some way, symbolic of
   life in general."


   NEW YORK--In a year that saw the release of such best-selling products
   as the Motorola RAZR 2 V8 and the wildly popular Casio XD-SW4800
   handheld dictionary, no personal electronics product launch was more
   highly anticipated than the November 13 debut of the second-generation
   Microsoft Zune mp3 player.
     Thousands Wait

   Consumers eagerly line up outside New York City's famous 5th Avenue
   24-hour Microsoft Store.

   The sleek new Zune, whose record-breaking sales have made the Zune
   name synonymous with "mp3 player," was so sought-after that thousands
   formed long lines outside hip, minimalist Microsoft Stores across the
   country days before the device went on sale. In Midtown Manhattan, the
   hysteria reached such a fever pitch that some were willing to pay as
   much as $200 for a spot in line.

   "How could you not want one?" said self-described "Microsoft fanatic"
   Maria Arkin, who, like many others scrambling to be among the first to
   get their hands on the new Zune, expressed disappointment upon
   learning that sales were limited to just two units per customer. "It's
   amazing. There's just nothing else like it on the market."

   Arkin added, "Plus, it's small enough to fit in my pocket--right next
   to my cell phone!"

   Even skeptics have found it difficult to deny the Zune's appeal. With
   its video capability, "squircle"-shaped control pad, Microsoft logo
   emblazoned on the back, and iconic black earbuds, it has become a
   must-have item for everyone from high-powered executives to trendy
   young scenesters. Many consumers consider owning the newest model of
   Zune to be the most essential status symbol of the past 10 years,
   hailing it as the hallmark fashion accessory of the so-called "Zune
   Generation."

   "The second-generation Zune has it all," said Brian Lam, editor in
   chief of Gizmodo, a popular tech blog. "It's got a great design, and
   the cult of personality that the undeniably charismatic Bill Gates has
   created with his Microsoft product launches only adds to the Zune's
   desirability."

   Though the Zune continues to dominate the world of personal
   electronics, technology experts believe it will quickly be
   overshadowed by the fall 2008 launch of the hotly anticipated new
   Texas Instruments TI-Nspire graphing calculator.


   AUGUSTA, GA--World No. 1-ranked golfer Tiger Woods, after appearing to
   struggle through the weekend--playing with uncharacteristic
   inconsistency, bogeying twice in the final rounds, and breaking
   clubs--shocked the crowd at Augusta by stripping off a carefully
   crafted mask and revealing that he had created the character of "Zach
   Johnson," played both Johnson's rounds and his own, and was in fact
   the winner of this year's Masters.
   [4]Enlarge Image Tiger Woods 

   "Did you seriously think I was going to lose this weekend?" Woods
   said, holding his "Johnson" mask aloft just moments after sinking
   "Johnson's" final putt as the gallery, surprised and relieved to have
   witnessed the Tiger Woods triumph they came to see, redoubled their
   cheers. "No way. This tournament was mine from the beginning. My only
   regret was that I was so busy playing 'Johnson's' game and mine
   simultaneously that 'Tiger's' score suffered."

   "But I did it to prove something to myself. They say in golf, the only
   person who can beat a true champion is himself," Woods said, peeling
   back the latex from his arms. "And that's exactly what happened here
   today."

   The revelation is the ultimate twist to a story that began to unfold
   when "Johnson," by all accounts an unknown Iowan, began to pull away
   from the field in the final round. As the world watched what they
   thought was a scrappy underdog with an uncommonly cool head supposedly
   playing the game of his life, "Johnson" shot a three-under 69 in his
   final round and held off a late challenge from an unusually, almost
   suspiciously, harried Woods.

   "As 'Zach,' I had an entirely different swing, which was part of the
   challenge of the whole persona," Woods said. "I also had to putt
   differently in order to make it look authentic, and some shots I'd
   normally hit well had to go into the trees to throw people off. It
   tested the limits of even my considerable talent."

   As tension mounted, the heavily disguised Woods found his attention
   completely occupied with the strain of not only playing "Johnson's"
   game, but maintaining the soft-spoken character of his new persona by
   giving self-effacing interviews laced with Christian rhetoric,
   conferring with the actress hired to pose as his wife Kim, and holding
   the rubber doll that served as his baby.

   "Naturally, in the end, I found my actual game suffered, and I tied
   for second with [Rory] Sabbatini and [Retief] Goosen," Woods said,
   while throwing his costume's amazingly lifelike latex arm-sheaths to
   the crowd. "Put on the Johnson costume, shoot his hole, take off the
   Johnson costume, shoot Tiger's hole. Tough day. I doubt anyone else
   could have done it and scored a combined four-over. I even came in
   second with all the strain, and I'm Tiger Woods."

   "Still... When Johnson bogeyed 17 by missing a three-foot putt, then
   came back to save par on the last?" Woods continued. "Classic Tiger. I
   can't believe people didn't realize that Zach Johnson was in fact me
   right then and there. Who else could it be?"

   "Although I have to say, I almost had me on the last few holes--bad
   driver, but if I'd sunk the birdie putt on 16, I close within a shot
   of myself with two holes left," Woods added. "And trust me--if any man
   alive can make a disguised Tiger Woods wilt under pressure, it's me."

   Woods' announcement sent a wave of combined amazement and relief
   throughout the golf world.

   "On a windy, cold day like this, for Tiger to fade the way he did?
   Unheard of. Practically unthinkable," said ESPN analyst Andy North.
   "And then for a no-name long shot from Iowa to come from literally
   nowhere to beat him and win it all? Unbelievable. Either story would
   have rocked the golf world. Together, they might have shattered it if
   they had come true."

   "Luckily for us all, they didn't," North added. "Tiger's still Tiger,
   even when he's Zach Johnson."

   Many are calling Woods the first golfer ever to finish a major in both
   first and second place, though golf historians have been quick to
   point out the 18-hole playoff in the 1942 Masters in which Ben Hogan
   defeated "Byron Nelson."


   SAN ANTONIO--San Antonio Spurs All-Star center Tim Duncan told
   reporters yesterday that he is rooting for the Cleveland Cavaliers to
   win this year's NBA Finals, stating that a Cavaliers victory is
   "exactly what the NBA needs right now."
   [4]Enlarge Image Tim Duncan 

   "They're an exciting team, a breath of fresh air, and with the way
   this year's playoffs have gone, something interesting definitely needs
   to happen," said Duncan, adding that with the Cavaliers in the Finals
   people will "finally have a reason to watch [the NBA]."  "Since the
   Western Conference immediately became dull when the Phoenix Suns were
   eliminated, the league has been gasping for a team that transcends
   basketball and appeals to the casual fan."

   "Quite frankly, if the Cavs win, I really don't know who loses,"
   Duncan added.

   According to Duncan, one of the main reasons he wants the Cavaliers to
   win the championship is so that Cleveland small forward LeBron James
   has a chance to flourish in the national spotlight.

   "LeBron has a certain magnetism a lot of other players don't have,"
   Duncan said. "Not only is he the best player on his team, but he is
   also charismatic, which is rare. He's the only player I can think of
   that the league can market on a global scale, but the only way the NBA
   can do that is if Cleveland wins the title. Fingers crossed that they
   do."

   Though Duncan said it would be optimal for James to hit a game-winning
   jumper in the closing seconds of Game 7 to win the championship, he
   stated it would be equally beneficial for the league if James simply
   dominates from the outset of Game 1, is given the opportunity to show
   off his tremendous athletic ability, and sends his opponents home
   early.

   "No matter what, an NBA Finals that ends in a Cavaliers victory will
   be fun to watch," Duncan said. "Much more fun than a bunch of guys
   with no real personality playing good, fundamental basketball, which
   is basically the type of thing you can expect from mind-numbing teams
   like the Pistons and the Jazz."

   "Most important," Duncan said, "the league needs a team that inspires
   kids to get out on the court, run up and down and take the ball to the
   basket--not a team that dumps it into their big man and lets him do
   all the work. That's why I didn't root for the Miami Heat last year."

   "Go Cavs!" added Duncan, who then put on a LeBron James jersey and a
   Cavaliers cap.

   Duncan isn't the only one in the Spurs organization openly rooting for
   the Cavaliers. Coach Greg Popovich, Tony Parker, Manu Ginobili, and
   team owner Peter Holt all agreed that a Cavaliers victory would be an
   excellent story for the league.

   "The NBA has been looking for a premier team since Michael Jordan led
   the Bulls to six NBA championships," Popovich said. "Truthfully, I
   couldn't even tell you what teams have won NBA titles since."

   In addition to current players and league officials, former players
   such as Dennis Rodman, Sean Elliot, and David Robinson have come out
   backing the Cavaliers. Even fans from cities other than Cleveland have
   voiced their support.

   "To be honest, in the past couple of years I have watched more college
   basketball than the NBA," said San Antonio resident Derek Hill. "But
   there's something about the Cavaliers that gives me a reason to keep
   watching them, something that really draws me in. They're really a lot
   of, you know, what's the word... Fun."


   WILMETTE, IL--The life of recent college graduate Jeremy Fahey was
   forever changed earlier this month when the once outgoing and carefree
   student succumbed to a job offer at a local insurance claims firm, an
   unforeseen and tragic event that will most likely keep him confined to
   an office chair for the rest of his life.
   [4]Enlarge Image Tragic Event 

   While he can sometimes rise from his office chair under his own power,
   Fahey said he can only do so with "great difficulty."

   While many details remain unclear, it is now believed that Fahey lost
   any and all upward mobility moments after being hired for a data entry
   position at Sedgwick Enterprises on the morning of July 25. According
   to several eyewitnesses at the scene, the impact of Fahey's full-time
   employment was so sudden and crushing that it has left the former high
   school track star paralyzed in front of his work computer screen ever
   since.

   "You hear stories about it all the time, but you never think that
   something like this is going to happen to you," said Fahey, who now
   spends most days trapped inside a windowless cubicle, and only leaves
   his office chair in order to use the bathroom. "It's funny: One minute
   you have your entire future ahead of you, and the next thing you know,
   you practically need someone to drag you out of bed in the morning."

   Due to Fahey's condition, simple, everyday tasks such as grocery
   shopping, walking his dog, or even just cleaning up after himself have
   become virtually impossible feats. In addition, Fahey admitted that he
   has been forced to abandon a number of his favorite activities, from
   jogging in the park to just kicking his feet up and watching daytime
   television.

   Fahey, who claims to have lost "all sense of purpose" due to this
   harrowing turn of events, is already finding it difficult to remember
   a time when he "didn't feel completely numb."

   "People keep telling me that it's going to get easier, that I won't
   always be stuck in this position, but right now, every minute of every
   day is a struggle," Fahey said.

   In recent weeks, Fahey has also found himself requiring the aid of
   various stimulants and drugs, such as caffeine, sugar, and even
   alcohol, just to get through the day. Worse yet, those close to the
   once lively 22-year-old report that he has become almost entirely
   dependent on computers to communicate with those around him.

   "I realize that what happened to Jeremy is nobody's fault, but still I
   sometimes wish I could have my old buddy back," said longtime friend
   Derrick Hodge, who recently visited Jeremy in his cubicle. "At first I
   tried pretending like nothing had changed, but every time I looked at
   him all I could see was that...that chair."

   News of Fahey's debilitating employment has left his loved ones
   shocked and feeling helpless.

   "Jeremy had such a bright future--he could have gone on to do anything
   he wanted," said Michelle Fahey, who claimed that she almost didn't
   recognize her brother. "To see him like this now, in that button-down
   dress shirt and those pleated slacks, it's almost too much to bear."

   "He didn't deserve this," she added. "Nobody deserves this."

   While Fahey has often thought about quitting for good, one thing has
   kept him going through it all.

   "Sometimes I imagine what a relief it would be if I just gave up all
   together, if I never had to deal with another weekday ever again,"
   Fahey said. "But then I think about my school loans and my credit card
   debt, and I know I have no choice but to keep going."


   SACRAMENTO, CA--Claiming that it is "something every man deserves to
   do once," local resident Carl Hilland, 32, told reporters Monday that,
   before he dies, he would like to throw a good, clean punch to
   somebody's face.
   [4]Enlarge Image Area Man Hopes 

   Hilland stands on a street that would be a perfect location for such a
   punch.

   "I want to make a guy's head snap back like in the movies," Hilland
   said. "All I want is the satisfaction of knowing that at one point in
   my life, I threw a straight right hand with complete balance and
   didn't look foolish doing it, and in a situation where my actions were
   completely justified."

   "Pow," he added, punching the air. "I honestly don't think that's too
   much to ask."

   Hilland, who is right-handed, characterized the ideal punch as "quick
   and clean," adding that he has no interest in throwing a "crazy"
   punch, such as an uppercut or a left hook. The husband and father of
   three also insisted that he is realistic in his expectations for the
   punch, and does not want to cause permanent damage or knock the victim
   out immediately. All he wants, Hillard said, is to throw the punch at
   an age when he will at least be able to "stun the guy a little."

   "This isn't about cowardice, hysteria, or blind rage," Hilland said.
   "It's about me, as a man, getting the chance to act like a man for
   once in my life."

   Hilland, who works as a group benefits consultant and characterizes
   himself as "pretty reserved," said that the approximately five punches
   he has thrown through the years don't count because of their
   nonviolent nature and social context. In each case, he was either
   hitting a friend in response to seeing a car with a burnt-out
   headlight or testing how much force he could generate with only a
   two-inch windup.

   "I did punch a wall once," said Hilland, who admitted that he took
   little satisfaction in it. "First off, I was just trying to make a
   scene, and everyone knew it. And secondly, a little scuff mark isn't
   the same as seeing blood stream out of a guy's nose, which is what I
   think will happen if I really get all my weight behind it."

   Added Hilland, attempting another air swing: "Boom."

   Hilland said the primary obstacle he faces is that he is seldom, if
   ever, in a position to punch anyone. He has not been in an angry
   physical altercation since the fourth grade, and even during those
   years was impeded by an unspoken "no-face" rule during fights. As a
   result, almost all schoolyard clashes consisted of one contestant
   wrestling the other to the ground while administering a headlock.

   "There was some whaling on people's backs, but it was all pretty
   sloppy," he said."And besides, a punch isn't really a punch unless you
   hit a person, then immediately shake your hand because the impact was
   surprisingly painful. Right?"

   The best-case scenario, which Hilland outlined at length, would
   include throwing the defining blow while defending his wife when "lots
   of people are watching." However, in order to carry the necessary
   psychological weight, the situation "has to happen organically,"
   Hilland said.

   "I'm just going to go on with my day-to-day routine and be patient,"
   Hilland added, though sources at his workplace noted that lately he
   seems to be escalating verbal disputes rather than defusing them. "I
   would even settle for hitting someone in the stomach, but it would
   have to be one of those body shots where they fall to the ground after
   gasping for air for a few seconds."

   "No, forget that," he continued. "It has to be to the face."


   WASHINGTON--Responding to a foul stench emanating from the mouths of
   Americans nationwide, officials from the U.S. Department of Breath and
   Human Services issued an emergency announcement Tuesday warning that
   American breath quality has been elevated to "stank mouth," the
   poorest single rating in the nation's 231-year history.
   [4]Enlarge Image U.S. Breath Reaches All-Time Worst 

   DBHS Secretary Michael Leavitt shields reporters from his coffee
   mouth.

   In a solemn announcement, DBHS Secretary Michael Leavitt informed the
   nation that his organization initially considered ignoring the
   findings, believing that the situation would resolve itself after the
   next routine tooth-brushing.

   "After several days with no improvement in odor, it became painfully
   clear that this agency simply had to say something," Leavitt said.

   Leavitt maintained that DBHS is doing all it can and will continue to
   observe the worsening crisis from at least three feet away.

   Added Leavitt, "I am compelled to ask the American people: What did
   you eat?"

   Attempting to handle the awkward national emergency in the most
   delicate manner, health officials at first theorized that everyone in
   the country had been out late the night before and did not have a
   chance to freshen up in the morning. But after more than 400,000
   uncomfortable conversations, officials deemed it necessary to notify
   the American public in order to prevent the loss of more social lives.

   "We can no longer afford to turn our heads away and ignore this
   problem," Leavitt said.

   Leavitt urged all Americans to accept a breath mint or a stick of gum,
   or, if such items are not available, a carbonated drink, which he
   claimed was not clinically proven to be an effective remedy, although
   there is some evidence that the carbon dioxide molecules may in effect
   "burn away" stink germs temporarily.

   Despite the urgency and magnitude of DBHS's announcement, some critics
   maintain that the response has been shortsighted and only aimed at
   making the problem temporarily smell like mint. Some even claim the
   putrid smell might already be irreversible.

   "This Band-Aid approach will work, but only for a few hours at most,"
   said Walter Romano, D.D.S., a Cleveland-area dentist who has begun
   handing out free toothbrushes and stickers depicting sound oral
   hygiene to residents in his area. "This country hasn't flossed in
   years. In fact, I believe some people have even made the ill-advised
   decision to gargle not with mouthwash, but almost exclusivley with dog
   shit."

   Others claim the problem is even worse than health officials are
   letting on.

   "This is a full-blown stenchademic," said Dr. Guy Hammond, a leading
   researcher of smelliness, who added that the catastrophe will only
   worsen with dinner approaching. "Before long, the U.S. will surpass
   even Britain as the nation with the worst breath in the Western
   world."
   [5]Enlarge Image 

   A Tempe, AZ resident's mouth is sanitized by emergency oral hygiene
   workers.

   According to an independent study conducted by Hammond, the percentage
   of Americans whose breath could scare the stink off a skunk increased
   dramatically over the past year, from 17 percent to 29 percent, while
   the number of citizens whose breath could peel paint off the wall went
   up from 23 percent to 45 percent. The remainder of Americans, the
   study found, had breath so bad it could sink a battleship.

   While no direct cause has been determined for the sudden spike in
   ass-mouth, officials believe it may be connected to a combination of
   garlic, onion, meat, cheese, tobacco, coffee, alcohol, plaque,
   laziness, and bodily fluids.

   With initial tests showing the rancid odor to be virtually impervious
   to multiple applications of Big Red, Leavitt said his agency is urging
   citizens to avoid inhaling through their noses, and cover their mouths
   when they talk.

   "Sadly, millions of Americans were raised to believe they could cup
   their hand and put it over their face to smell their breath," Leavitt
   told reporters. "But our top scientists and health experts informed me
   personally about 20 minutes ago that this method does not work."

   DBHS has embarked on a widespread campaign to eliminate the deadly
   odors found in almost every mouth in the country.  Refreshing relief
   has been slow to come, however: Efforts to deliver 30,000 gallons of
   ACT rinse to the hardest-hit regions of the country have stalled
   because so many National Guardsmen are already deployed in Iraq and
   the rest refused to go anywhere near the most troubled cities. In
   addition, attempts by FEMA workers to distribute Tic Tacs to citizens
   in Alabama and Texas also failed when hundreds were injured attempting
   to open the plastic boxes' flip-action lids.

   On Wednesday, officials at the Center for Gum Disease Control and
   Prevention announced plans to quarantine those with the severest
   halitosis, though they warned that concentrating so much rotting
   breath in one place could make the entire nation puke simultaneously.


   WASHINGTON, DC--The Department of Homeland Security announced Monday
   that its Counter-Counterterrorism Unit successfully carried out its
   largest and most complex anti-anti-terror exercise to date, destroying
   the Washington Monument in a massive explosion that left 122 dead,
   dozens more injured, and the area around the National Mall a chaotic
   scene of smoke and debris.
   [4]Enlarge Image Washington Monument 

   "We learned from Sept. 11 that we can't just sit back and wait for the
   terrorists to attack us," said DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff at a
   press conference held in front of an on-site triage tent, gesturing to
   the blackened stump of the 122-year-old obelisk as divers pulled
   bodies from the nearby reflecting pool. "We still have a lot of work
   to do, but this operation exceeded our expectations. If we hadn't
   destroyed the Washington Monument today, we would never have known how
   vulnerable it was to attack."

   "Now it can never be destroyed by terrorists," Chertoff added.

   While the counterterrorism unit assigned to protect Washington, D.C.'s
   landmarks was recognized for its "loyal service," Chertoff said the
   counter-counterterrorism team deserved special praise for having had
   "such a profound impact" on the future of American security.

   The CCU was created in 2004 in response to the lack of terror activity
   since the Sept. 11 attacks. Its main tasks include raising awareness
   among the American public of the "myriad unknown threats" that still
   face the country, while also testing the readiness and effectiveness
   of the nation's counterterrorism program by exposing agents to
   real-world scenarios. Last winter, the eight-man
   Counter-Counterterrorism Unit was prevented from blowing up the Statue
   of Liberty and from releasing deadly sarin gas at a Los Angeles Lakers
   basketball game. But sources within DHS said they believed CCU's
   months of planning and reconnaissance paid off in the latest exercise.
   [5]Enlarge Image Suspected Targets 

   The CCU's after-action report showed that the team began the mission
   by convening outside the monument at 10:23 a.m., disguised as
   counterterrorism officers. Commanding officer Commanding Officer Sgt.
   Campbell Payton, who is believed to be the leader of the group, then
   ordered sharpshooters stationed around the perimeter to begin
   eliminating security personnel, and sent a four-man team to choose
   hostages from the terrified tourists at the scene.

   After taking control of the area, Payton tested his counterterrorism
   adversaries by demanding the release of all Guantanamo Bay detainees.
   When U.S. hostage negotiators said they would "see what they could
   do," they were shot dead by accompanying CCU agents for breaking a
   strict DHS policy against negotiating with terrorists.

   "Events like those today prove just how real the threat is--how none
   of us is safe," said acting White House Press Secretary Dana Perino
   during a briefing today. "The White House is looking forward to many
   more exercises of this kindto ensure that we can fully protect
   high-value targets and keep this important work on the minds of the
   American public."
     Michael Chertoff

   "Now [the Washington Monument] can never be destroyed by terrorists."

   DHS Secretary
   Michael Chertoff

   David C. Reynolds, a linguist in the DHS's terrorism prevention task
   force who has an office between the counterterrorism unit and the
   counter-counterterrorism group, said he was shaken by the loss of so
   many close associates.

   "I'll miss having them around," Reynolds said. "I'm mourning the
   friends who died combating and carrying out this momentous act, but at
   least I know their sacrifice was not in vain."

   President Bush, who has already declared a state of emergency in the
   area, is scheduled to tour the wreckage tomorrow. In a statement
   released today, Bush urged Congress to pass a proposed $291 million
   spending package for the counter-counterterrorism program, while
   pointing out "the clear need" to provide the counterterrorism program
   with better training and equipment.

   "By shattering the Washington Monument, the peace of our nation's
   capital, and dozens of people's lives, the dedicated counter-
   counterterrorists have proven just how devastating a determined enemy
   can be," the statement read in part. "These brave men showed those who
   would seek to do us harm and those whose job it is to stop them that
   America is not to be trifled with."

   Special officer Jeremy Stillwell, the only member of the
   counter-counterterrorism unit to survive the exercise, died early
   yesterday morning while being questioned by
   counter-counter-counterterrorism personnel.


   WASHINGTON--Barely two months after U.N. inspectors in Iran failed to
   find evidence of an active nuclear weapons program, the Department of
   Homeland Security uncovered new information Monday proving the Middle
   Eastern nation has obtained literally trillions of atoms--the same
   particles sometimes used to make atomic bombs--for unknown purposes.
   [4]Enlarge Image Condoleezza Rice 

   Condoleezza Rice displays for reporters one of the many varieties of
   atoms Iran is believed to already possess.

   "We have no doubt that Iran now possesses an alarming number of atoms
   within its borders, despite countless warnings from the international
   community," Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff said at a
   press conference Monday afternoon, as he pointed to a satellite image
   marked with dozens of locations where his office claims the
   unauthorized atoms are being held. "The Iranians maintain the atoms
   are only being used to form the building blocks of all existence, but
   we cannot afford to take that risk."

   The atoms, which DHS officials believe to be "the smallest indivisible
   units of any element," were first discovered in aerial photographs
   taken of a laboratory in central Isfahan. When the photographs were
   enlarged several hundred thousand times, additional clusters of
   atoms--known in intelligence circles as "matter"--were spotted in
   large cargo trucks parked nearby the facility, in storage units on the
   grounds, and in the pockets, shoes, clothing, hair, and skin of
   several nuclear physicists in the parking lot.

   More alarming, officials said, is the "very likely" possibility that
   there are more atoms inside the laboratory.

   "The threat of atoms in Iran is real," said Chertoff, showing
   reporters an empty vial to illustrate his point. "Even as we speak,
   Iranians are turning millions of carbon atoms into a powerful energy
   source they can use to strengthen their armies, pilots, president, and
   someday perhaps, a team of nuclear physicists."
     Condoleezza Rice

   'We could get into a situation where Iran has so many atoms that its
   increased atomic weight allows it to bully its neighbors.'

   Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice

   Earlier this month, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice made a visit
   to the region, where she reportedly observed atoms being smuggled
   across the border from neighboring countries Iraq and Afghanistan, as
   well as daily shipments of atoms from as far away as Russia, China,
   and the troposphere. Secretary Rice also witnessed atoms being
   strategically used to deliver televised press conferences regarding
   the nonproliferation of Iranian atoms.

   "Security checkpoints have been unable to stop the flow of atoms into
   Iran," Rice said. "Even with the best equipment available, it is
   nearly impossible to distinguish dangerous atoms that could be used in
   fission for the purposes of massive destruction from the kind of atoms
   that are functioning primarily as mechanical pencils."

   Added Rice: "We cannot afford to let these atoms fall into, or be a
   part of, the wrong hands."

   Vice President Dick Cheney and his staff were briefed on the atomic
   situation in Iran Tuesday with the aid of colorful interlocking
   plastic models and a short film.

   "The United States will not stand idly by while Iran gains the
   protons, neutrons, and whatever else they need to threaten the free
   world," Cheney said at a press conference that afternoon. "Iran has
   demonstrated time and time again its ability to combine atoms of
   hydrogen and oxygen right out in the open, and we cannot allow that to
   go on any longer."

   Iranian officials claim the atoms are being used only for peaceful,
   life-sustaining purposes, and that it is physically impossible for
   Iran or any government to create or destroy matter in order to comply
   with U.S. regulations.

   Next month, U.N. inspectors will visit Iran to investigate and catalog
   all of the nation's current atomic holdings in order to determine if
   the country may be stockpiling dangerous atoms in unregistered
   laboratories, underground facilities, above-ground facilities, the
   citizenry, air, water, soil, grass, shoes, picnic lunches, pets, flaky
   pastries, or the numerous nuclear warheads the country has recently
   featured in parades.

   Navy football

   WASHINGTON, DC--As combined American forces celebrate two consecutive
   football wins against the Notre Dame Fighting Irish while
   simultaneously marking the loss of the 3,150th soldier to hostile
   action in Iraq, many are left wondering if the United States military
   is in fact focusing its energies on the correct opponent.

   "There is no doubt that Navy's recent 46-44 defeat of a motivated,
   entrenched Notre Dame team after a long drawn-out battle was a
   masterpiece of leadership, strategy, tactics, and bravery in the
   finest tradition of the service," said Grant Hughson, an editor at
   Jane's Sporting News. "And the total Air Force 41-24 domination of the
   Irish, accomplished by bringing to bear the sort of overwhelming force
   against which no opponent can retaliate, was a textbook execution of
   the doctrines of that particular branch of the American armed forces.
   Meanwhile, however, they seem to be making little or no headway in
   Iraq."

   As the troop surge in Iraq draws to a close, sectarian and insurgent
   activity seems to have slowed to a near-standstill. However, with the
   2007 death toll exceeding 850, more U.S. troops have been lost this
   year than in any other since major combat operations began, throwing
   the military's first victory over Notre Dame since 1963 into stark
   contrast.

   "Strange how history repeats itself," Navy historian and football
   commentator John Feinstein said after the Air Force victory was
   reported alongside the news that the U.S. was preparing to reduce
   their commitment in Iraq by at least one battalion. "I don't think
   anyone who saw it will deny that Roger Staubach's '63 victory over the
   Golden Domers was inspiring, but I'd bet any money that at the time
   the Pentagon would've traded it for a victory in Vietnam."

   Reactions to the armed forces' lopsided record of domestic and
   overseas success has been mixed, with many fans of the military
   pointing out that, while both football and war can be brutal, bloody,
   and final, the outcomes of combat may take decades to become clear.

   "It's important to realize that our young men have been fighting
   pitched battles against religious fanatics who have been brainwashed
   into a culture that seeks to destroy all other ways of life," Air
   Force head coach Troy Calhoun said Monday. "That's just the way Notre
   Dame football is, the way it's always been. You can't reason with
   people like that. You destroy them as completely, remorselessly, and
   quickly as you can."

   "Naturally, the young men of our service academy will find the
   situation infinitely more complex when they're deployed to Iraq," Navy
   head coach Paul Johnson added. "Compare football to war all you want,
   but unlike when you go into South Bend, winning in Baghdad means
   winning the hearts and minds of the people, not pursuing some sort of
   scorched-earth policy."

   Gen. David Petraeus, the top U.S. commander in Iraq and architect of
   the military's much-criticized current counterinsurgency strategy,
   offered no comment on whether or not the U.S. was any closer to
   following up its victories against Notre Dame with one or more
   much-needed victories in Iraq. However, the West Point graduate did
   express his disgust with the recent "friendly fire" incident in which
   the Air Force Falcons shelled the Army Black Knights 30-10 and voiced
   his support for installing some variation of the option in order to
   increase the Army's offensive capabilities.


   WASHINGTON--Millions of Americans and thousands of federal employees
   awoke Monday to find the national mail service in disarray after a
   group of rowdy teens on a joyride reportedly destroyed up to 90
   percent of the postal service's nationwide infrastructure with a
   baseball bat.
   [4]Enlarge Image USPS rubble 

   New York's famed post office was reduced to rubble after one of the
   teens got an especially good whack in on it.

   Citing more than $45 billion in damages from the late-night escapade,
   the United States Postal Service has suspended all mail delivery and
   requested relief aid to rebuild more than 650 demolished post offices.
   The agency is also seeking supplemental funding to clean up the
   letters, packages, and crushed Budweiser can the teens left in their
   wake.

   "These hooligans have absolutely no respect for property, fellow
   residents, or their country," Postmaster General John E. Potter said
   as he picked up pieces of the USPS headquarters that had flown across
   the street and into a neighboring yard. "This is the third postal
   service I've had to replace this year."

   According to police documents, Potter told investigators he was
   working late at his office Sunday night when, around 11:30 p.m., he
   heard the sound of a loud muffler and rock music coming from outside
   USPS headquarters. Potter said he ran outside to see what was
   happening, but by the time he arrived the teens were speeding off down
   a gravel road, giving him only enough time to throw a crab apple at
   the departing car, which he described as "a rusted-out old Buick."

   Authorities have thus far not been able to identify the teens
   responsible, who remain at large and in serious trouble.

   "It's those Murphy twins and their no-good friend Tim Strougle,"
   Potter said while shaking a broom. "What they did was destruction of
   property, plain and simple. Those kids should know better than to
   tamper with a federal mail service agency--it's a felony."

   Potter went on to argue that the irresponsible teens should have to
   personally pay the rebuilding costs of his agency's infrastructure, a
   punishment he believes would "teach them a lesson they won't soon
   forget."

   Added Potter, "Someone's going to have to spend a whole day digging a
   new hole for that foundation."
   [5]Enlarge Image Postmaster General 

   Postmaster General John Potter cleans up the capital in the aftermath
   of the teens' joyride.

   Though FBI agents assigned to investigate the nationwide act of
   vandalism would not comment on any potential leads, they did disclose
   that the task force has ruled out a number of suspects, including
   those two Anderson boys from just up on Hoyt Road.

   "Sure, they've gotten into trouble in the past, but [their father]
   Dave [Anderson] set them straight after the shenanigans they pulled
   last Halloween," said Special Agent Brian Richards, who told reporters
   the FBI was enlisting the help of municipal law- enforcement agencies
   and snoopy neighbors from across the country in the investigation.
   "Nor do we have reason to believe that Shane and Lance McMurray were
   involved in this terrible crime. They're good boys. Mowed my lawn last
   summer."

   Tampa resident Eric Thompson, 39, was one of countless American
   citizens outraged by the night of teenage mischief.

   "I just don't get it," said Thompson, standing in front of his broken
   local postal branch. "Why would someone want to ruin a perfectly good
   post office? Don't they have anything better to do? If this is what
   kids today do for fun, I don't know what to tell you."

   Added Thompson: "Now I'm not going to get my magazines until who knows
   when."

   While many Americans remain convinced that whichever local teens are
   responsible should be punished to the full extent of the law, some
   feel the public is overreacting.

   "Everyone's getting all riled up over nothing," Attorney General
   Michael Mukasey said. "The U.S. Postal Service got a little banged
   up--so what? We did the same thing when we were younger."

   "Who knows, maybe old man Barrington ran over the damn things,"
   Mukasey added. "He shouldn't even have a license anymore, he's so darn
   nearsighted. I wouldn't be surprised if he knocked over all those
   buildings and didn't even realize he did it."

   On Tuesday, the USPS announced they have begun taking extreme measures
   to prevent further destruction of federal property. As part of the new
   strategy, beginning next month security officers will take posts in
   the bushes surrounding USPS facilities in all major cities, and a
   select number of new offices will be reinforced by constructing a
   smaller office inside a large post office and filling the middle
   portion with cement.

   "I can't wait for one of those punks to take a swing at one of our
   mail centers after that," Potter said.

   According to FBI records, the destruction of the U.S. Postal Service
   was the most significant incident of rampaging teens since the entire
   U.S. Air Force was keyed during the homecoming in 1998.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Plagued by late fees, high interest rates, and
   harassing creditors, the U.S. took out a debt-consolidation loan
   Monday, combining the nation's $6.1 trillion debt into a single, easy
   monthly payment.

   [4]Enlarge Image Debt-Consolidation 

   Bush watches an E-Z Debt commercial on a White House TV.

   "My fellow Americans, we have just taken the first step toward
   regaining control of our finances," said President Bush at a press
   conference. "Thanks to a joint arrangement between the Treasury
   Department, the Federal Reserve, and E-Z Debt Services of Baltimore,
   we are finally on our way to freedom from debt."

   As of press time, the national debt stands at $6,144,393,982,061.52.

   Under the terms of the consolidation, E-Z Debt Services will repay the
   nation's estimated 45,000 creditors, a majority of whom are foreign
   investors, insurance companies, banks, and other privately held
   entities. In return, the U.S will make a single monthly payment of
   $9.26 billion, adjusted for inflation, to E-Z Debt every month for the
   next 70 years.

   "We are proud to enter into this arrangement with the federal
   government," E-Z Debt spokesman Phil Rizzo told reporters. "We know
   how hard it is when you're buried under a mountain of bills with
   seemingly no way to get out. When you don't know where else to turn,
   E-Z Debt is there to help get you back on your feet."

   The government first became aware of E-Z Debt Services on July 10,
   when Sen. Max Baucus (D-MT) happened to see a commercial for the
   company while watching late-night television. Two days later,
   President Bush saw the same ad during a 3 a.m. M*A*S*H rerun.

   According to White House press secretary Ari Fleischer, Bush was
   sitting at his desk clutching a fistful of past-due notices when he
   saw the ad.

   "He was holding all these unpaid bills, and tons more were piled high
   on his desk, including a three-month-old bill from Lockheed-Martin for
   $5.3 billion worth of jet fighters," said Fleischer, who was in the
   Oval Office working late at the time. "He raised the handfuls of bills
   above his head and shouted, 'I can't take it anymore!' That's when the
   ad came on."

   [5]Enlarge Image Debt-Consolidation Jump 

   Bush poses with a Lockheed-Martin X-35A fighter that was saved from
   repossession, thanks to E-Z Debt.

   After extensive meetings between E-Z Debt officials and the Treasury
   Department, an arrangement was reached which provided a manageable
   payment plan--with no threatening phone calls or military invasions
   from creditor nations.

   Though the House Of Representatives swiftly and decisively approved
   the consolidation plan by a vote of 285 to 103, the Senate took longer
   to rally the necessary support, debating the issue for weeks.

   "I was definitely skeptical about E-Z Debt, as were many of my
   colleagues," Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle (D-SD) said. "I'd
   heard horror stories about those debt services. England used one to
   get out of a recession in the late '80s, and they're still paying for
   it."

   "But E-Z Debt is different," Daschle continued. "Jim [Smoller], our
   E-Z Debt representative, sat down with me and the other senators and
   really convinced us that debt consolidation was the way to go. He was
   extremely helpful, taking the time to patiently answer all our
   questions. He even gave us a free quote."

   Opponents of the plan charge that it unnecessarily endangers the
   numerous national assets offered as collateral. Among the valuable
   properties being put up are Yellowstone National Park, NASA, and the
   state of Alaska.

   "Holding the nation hostage to a single creditor is hardly preferable
   to the original situation," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) during a
   lengthy Senate debate on the consolidation. "Besides, I am confident
   that if we just trim a few unnecessary expenses from the budget and
   somehow get a little bigger GNP, we can climb out of this hole without
   help. We just need a little more time."

   "Okay, so we mismanaged our money a little bit--who doesn't every now
   and then?" Sen. Bill Frist (R-TN) said. "But that's no reason to
   resort to using one of those get-out-of-debt-now services."

   Despite such opposition, ultimately, the Senate's pro-consolidation
   voices won out.

   "In the end, everybody came to see that E-Z Debt isn't just another
   loan. It's a way to get out of debt without declaring bankruptcy,"
   Daschle said. "Thanks, E-Z Debt. We couldn't have done it without
   you."


   WASHINGTON, DC--Calling last December's execution of Saddam Hussein
   "anticlimactic," White House officials announced Monday their
   intention to hang the late Iraqi dictator again this year in an
   attempt to garner a more favorable response from the public.
   [4]Enlarge Image U.S. To Re-Hang Saddam Hussein 

   An early sketch of plans for this year's execution event.

   "We're really looking for something that will refocus the American
   people's attention on all the positive aspects of this war," White
   House press secretary Tony Snow said. "We were counting on the death
   of this brutal despot--who, by the way, gassed his own people and was
   just like Hitler--to be a major media event for us. Instead, we wasted
   three or four great news days at a time when we really could have used
   a few high points."

   Most observers considered Hussein's execution, which was carried out
   by Iraq's interim government and broadcast in grainy, amateur footage,
   to be creepy, gruesome, and generally lacking the sense of triumphant
   catharsis authorities had hoped for.

   To remedy the public relations failure, Hussein's body has been dug up
   from its burial place near Tikrit and wired together by U.S. Army
   forensic experts to ensure that it holds its shape during the
   ceremony. The re-hanging, which will be aired on all major networks
   and accompanied by a 30-minute retrospective highlighting the many
   reasons why Hussein was a terrible person deserving of this ignoble
   end, will be "brighter, cheerier, and more upbeat," than the first
   attempt.
     The original hanging

   The original hanging.

   "We're going to have superior production values, inspiring music, and
   live, prime-time coverage straight from Baghdad," said the State
   Department's media coordinator, Ellen Grainer. "[Hussein's body] has
   decomposed so much that his remains will have to be wrapped in canvas
   and covered up, but we plan to display a full-color oversized photo of
   him directly behind the gallows. That should have a real impact on
   viewers. We're pulling out all the stops to make sure we get the
   feel-good media moment everyone's looking for."

   Grainer echoed the sentiments of several Defense Department officials
   who believe the U.S. should never have handed over a high-profile
   hanging to the Iraqi people in the first place. According to Defense
   Secretary Robert Gates, the two biggest miscalculations were allowing
   such a low-quality presentation to be associated with the American
   military, and timing the execution to take place around Christmas.

   "The thinking was that Americans who missed their loved ones overseas
   would appreciate an emotional boost around that time," Gates said.
   "But apparently, people didn't think the holiday season set an
   appropriate mood for a public execution."

   "If we could have hanged Osama bin Laden, that would have been ideal,"
   Gates added. "Obviously, though, you have to catch someone to be able
   to legally murder them, so we're just making the most of what we've
   got."

   It remains to be seen whether public reaction will be more
   enthusiastic this time around.

   "After watching the first hanging, I felt kind of sickened and empty
   inside," Iowa resident Ted Froman, 38, said. "But with all the
   violence that's going on over there at the moment, it would be nice to
   see something done right."

   In the event that the execution fails to create the desired positive
   effect, authorities said they would not rule out hanging Hussein a
   third or even a fourth time, if necessary.


   NEW YORK--An emergency coalition of deities from several major world
   religions is still sorting through the wreckage of a tragic bus
   accident that claimed 67 lives Friday in the culturally diverse
   Jackson Heights neighborhood of Queens.
   [4]Enlarge Image Various Deities 

   Queens residents who, but for the grace of gods, could have been in
   that bus when it crashed.

   According to authorities, at approximately 6:45  p.m. the Q45 bus
   crashed into a power generator at a busy street corner after swerving
   to avoid a slow-moving group of elderly Chinese pedestrians. Police
   say that a Korean laundry, an Irish pub, a Senegalese restaurant, and
   a churro stand were also severely damaged in the resultant smoke and
   flames.

   More than half a dozen gods reportedly responded to the scene within
   moments of the crash. Because the victims hailed from 14 countries and
   professed an as-yet-undetermined number of religious faiths, however,
   the soul-placement process has been laborious, and fewer than a third
   of the deceased have so far been escorted to their appropriate
   afterlives.

   "What a mess this is," said Ganesha, the Hindu lord of success and
   obstacles. "Assuming we ever manage to figure out who worships our
   particular pantheon, there's still the problem of divvying up the
   Buddhists, Jains, and other non-Hindus who worship me, Lakshmi,
   Vishnu, and about 1,000 other gods."

   In the gods' haste to resolve the matter, some of the souls were
   apparently misplaced. In one instance, an adherent of Buddhism  slated
   to be reborn into an Ohio family was temporarily reincarnated as a
   tree sloth. And as of press time, a self-avowed atheist who at the
   last minute took God into his heart has yet to be retrieved from the
   void and placed among the faithful.
     God

   'I don't have the time to hang around here all week like some of the
   niche gods do.'

   God of Abraham
     Ganesha

   'Despite my many arms, cases will have to be handled one at a time to
   avoid mixups.'

   Ganesha

   Many of the gods were struggling just to maintain order.

   "Honestly, who ever heard of a Jew named Shinjoku Murikami?" the
   Shinto sun goddess Amaterasu said. "I had that guy halfway to haunting
   a shrine as a kami spirit before I realized my mistake."

   The religious triage suffered severe setbacks from the beginning
   because many gods serve a relatively low number of devotees and are
   unaccustomed to rapid response.

   "The moment we saw that there was someone named Hawkwind, we knew we'd
   be there for a while," said the Sikh god, Waheguru who explained that,
   due to a verbal agreement struck several millennia ago, no deity is
   allowed to leave until all souls have been claimed. "On top of that,
   it took the Wiccan goddess of the Moon, Earth, and Sea three full days
   to show up."

   One god, who asked that His name not be spoken aloud, said the
   theological muddle was a rarity, and that He and the other deities
   usually have no trouble operating without an official post-disaster
   protocol.

   "We don't normally have to deal with these kinds of details," the god
   said. "If there's a rocket attack in the Middle East, it's pretty easy
   to figure out who goes in to mop up."

   Further complicating matters is the presence of the devil, Beelzebub,
   who has demanded that the coalition relinquish all souls to him.

   "These are all vile, vile sinners, and I'm not leaving until I get
   them," the dark lord said, though other gods appeared unreceptive.
   "Look, my numbers have been way down this month. I'm sure everyone
   here did something damning at some point, right? Come on."

   Several lesser-known gods, such as Jengu, an archaic water deity still
   worshipped by some of the Sawa people in Africa, arrived on the scene
   despite having no devotees among the dead. Jengu said he knew there
   was a "really good Cameroonian place" in the neighborhood and assumed
   that he might be needed.

   "I guess not," the minor god said. "I'll probably hang out anyway,
   though, just in case."

   While the aftermath has been generally chaotic, the most
   inconvenienced deity appeared to be the God of Abraham, who is
   worshipped by billions of Muslims, Jews, and Christians.

   "Ideally, I'd just take all of them in one pile, but there are about a
   thousand little sects and denominations and all that nonsense that I
   have to act like I care about," God/Yahweh/Allah said. "Did you know
   there was a guy who practiced Santeria on that bus? Christ, what a
   nightmare."

   The deities were all unanimous in agreeing that the sole Catholic
   fatality should be condemned to forever roam the Earth as an
   anguished, wretched ghost, as Catholicism is the only truly false
   religion and has no god to accept its faithful when they die.


   2006 was the year Vice President Dick Cheney broke from his
   traditionally parsimonious relationship with the news media, and
   rewarded journalists and commentators with an extremely provocative
   news item involving the near-point-blank shooting of 78-year-old
   friend and campaign contributor Harry Whittington on a Texas ranch.
   [4]Enlarge Image Vice President R 

   Spraying my elderly hunting companion in the face with birdshot was
   the least I could do for the press corps I love.

   Vice President Dick Cheney

   When the vice president addressed the media two days after the
   incident, many of those in the press corps were moved to tears.

   "Christmas has come early this year," Cheney quipped to the
   appreciative crowd of reporters in the White House press briefing
   room. "But in all seriousness, you truly deserve this gift, which I
   happily bestow on you in great thanks and humble appreciation for all
   you've done these past five years. May you make the most of it."

   "Considering all the trouble you go through to cover the White House,
   spraying my elderly hunting companion in the face with birdshot was
   the least I could do," he said.

   "I love you all," he added.

   Cheney said the "token of [his] affection" was intended not only for
   reporters, but for anyone in any media-related position. "Late-night
   talk-show hosts, pundits, parody songwriters, and even bloggers--from
   the bottom of my heart, I want you all to have this."
     Vice President Whittington

   Cheney urged the recipients to exploit the way he seemingly acted out
   of sheer malice and callous indifference in his handling of the
   incident, inviting them to make jokes inspired by, but not limited to,
   his authoritarian persona, his pro-gun position, and the bumbling
   cartoon hunter Elmer Fudd.

   "I can't remember the last time a high-level administration official
   has taken the time to do something so wonderful just for us," NBC
   Chief White House Correspondent David Gregory said shortly after
   Cheney's announcement. "Mr. Vice President, we salute you."

   The incident quickly garnered worldwide attention and deep media
   gratitude.

   "I could have kissed him," The Washington Post's Richard Cohen said.
   "And when it came out that his favorite hobby is slaughtering dozens
   of defenseless pheasants who have no chance to escape from the
   confines of the hunting ranch, that was the icing on the cake."

   Cohen added, "I doubt we'll ever see a vice president as kindhearted
   and generous as this one."


   EVERETT, WA--After re-watching the last six episodes of the show's
   first season Tuesday night, local resident Sam Krewalski, a
   29-year-old data-entry clerk and avid Lost fan, mentioned yet again
   that the diverse cast of characters featured in the hit ABC drama
   "totally reminds [him]" of his circle of eight friends.
   [4]Enlarge Image Area Man 

   Though Krewalski does not have any black friends, he would want them
   to be like Mr. Eko rather than Michael.

   "Dave [Engler] is definitely Jack," said Krewalski, comparing the
   31-year-old line cook whom he has known since college to the selfless
   doctor and leader of the survivors. "Always has a plan. Always making
   the tough decisions. Just last week, none of us could decide where we
   wanted to eat, when Dave all of a sudden steps in and says Outback
   Steakhouse, and boom, it was like the scene where they all follow Jack
   to the caves."

   "And Dave also has this thing where he always has to 'fix things,'"
   Krewalski continued, referring to Jack's main character flaw. "Like
   that time he broke my cupboard door and, even though I told him it was
   fine, he insisted on screwing my cupboard door back on. I was like,
   'Okay, Jack.' He seriously needs to learn to let go sometimes."

   According to Krewalski, his friend Katie Peters is "the Kate of the
   group," not only because both she and the TV character share the same
   first name and are attractive, but also because Katie, like Kate, is
   adventurous.

   "Last month, a bunch of us were going to the batting cages, and she
   was like, 'I'm coming, too,'" Krewalski said. "I had to laugh. Katie,
   always trying to be one of the guys."

   "I guess my other friend Katie, Katie O'Malley, is also a little bit
   like Kate," he added. "But she's also like Sun, too. Yeah, she's Sun."

   Krewalski claims that he himself is a mixture of John Locke and
   Desmond, pointing out that he "truly identifies with" both of their
   struggles, and that he can be designated as two separate characters
   because "no one else [he knows] is like them, so it's okay."
   [5]Enlarge Image Area Man Lost Chart 

Coincidence?

   Just some of the eerie similarities

   "Desmond had to push a button every 108 minutes for three years in
   order to save the world," Krewalski said, noting that he also has a
   beard like Desmond's. "At my job, I sit around, mindlessly entering
   numbers into a computer all day, too. All for the greater good. In
   fact, some mornings on my way to work, I jokingly say to myself, 'Off
   to go push the button.' Or sometimes, 'Off to go save the world.'"

   In addition, Krewalski said he is "pretty much" like John Locke,
   despite never having had his kidney stolen by his con-man father, nor
   having been pushed from a 10-story building, becoming paralyzed from
   the waist down, and suddenly regaining the ability to walk in an
   unexplained miracle.

   "I'm the provider," he said, likening his role among his friends to
   that of the island's hunter and tracker. "Last Super Bowl, I made
   quesadillas for everyone, and it was totally like Locke coming back
   with the boar, me marching in with all that food. My friends didn't
   think I could cook. It was definitely a 'Don't tell me what I can't
   do!' moment."

   "Also, I have a really good sense of direction," Krewalski added. "And
   faith. I have faith like John Locke, too. John Locke is awesome."

   Krewalski explained that some of the correlations between the show's
   characters and his friends were not immediately obvious, and certain
   acquaintances only revealed which characters they truly represented
   through interactions with already classified friends.

   "I struggled to peg [Steve] Wang for the longest time, but when I saw
   how he acted around Katie, or Kate, it suddenly dawned on me: He's
   Sawyer," Krewalski said. "That made me realize how Wang is always
   coming up with these funny nicknames for everyone, like Sawyer does.
   I'm 'Sam-O' and he calls Tom [White] 'Whitey.'"

   "Tom's like Hurley because he's fat," Krewalski added.

   Other designations Krewalski has made in recent months include: Greg
   is Sayid, Froberg is Jin, Pete is Boone, Krewalski himself is also
   Sayid, Joe is Ben, and Joe's dog Rufus is Vincent. He also has a group
   of acquaintances that he has dubbed his "tail section of friends," or
   "Tailies," for short. Among them, Robert is Bernard, Anne is Claire
   and Rose and Ana-Lucia and Libby and Rousseau, and Gabe is Shannon,
   because according to Krewalski, even though they are different
   genders, "they're both annoying." Krewalski also claims his friend
   Chris is "exactly like" Charlie, as both have struggled with a heroin
   addiction.

   Last week, in what Krewalski called "an interesting twist" to his
   circle of friends, Dave invited some of his coworkers from the
   restaurant to come along for drinks with everyone. Krewalski has begun
   to refer to this group of people as "the Others."

   "There was definitely a lot of mystery surrounding them at first,
   because we all went out to their favorite bar, and we were on their
   turf," Krewalski said. "But something tells me they could turn out to
   be good guys."

   "Then again, they might just be assholes," Krewalski added.


   PONCA CITY, OK--Weird Ponca City High School freshman Sam Hollis, 14,
   briefly transcended his lifelong streak of social awkwardness
   Wednesday, surprising his classmates and teacher when he deftly
   dissected a frog during his second-period biology lab.

   Displaying a never-before-witnessed confidence and poise, Hollis
   effortlessly handled a surgical scalpel and a pair of forceps. After
   making a clean lengthwise incision in the preserved frog's abdomen, he
   used the forceps to skillfully pull aside the layers of skin and
   muscle.
   [4]Enlarge Image Weird Kid 

   Sam Hollis, who is small for his age, takes a moment to reflect on the
   only instance of easy social interaction in his 14 years of life.

   Hollis reportedly completed the opening of the body cavity in less
   than one minute, which drew the attention of nearby pairs of students
   still arguing over who would have to touch their frog and gagging from
   the stench of formaldehyde.

   "At first I thought he was going to be all weird and start to cry or
   something," said Hollis' assigned lab partner Ricky Malnight, who
   before knew Hollis only as "that dork who never talks and has
   dandruff." "But he just picked up the scalpel and dove right in. He
   didn't even look at the workbook or anything. It was pretty awesome
   because all I had to do was sit there while he did everything."

   Hollis appeared so in his element, Malnight said, that for the rest of
   the class period he almost forgot the scrawny teen's faintly musty
   odor, perennially crooked glasses, and widely agreed-upon "gross"
   status.

   As students craned their necks to watch him assuredly navigate the
   frog's abdominal cavity, Hollis capitalized on his fleeting peer
   acceptance by identifying the functions of all seven major organs. He
   even showed his classmates how to cut out the gall bladder without
   damaging the liver, a skill which earned many extra credit on the
   project.
     Natalie Kranz

"Steve [Sam] was a big help."

   Natalie Kranz
   President, Student Council

   Hollis also blazed a trail in stomach cutting, the most dreaded part
   of the project, in which students examined the semi- digested remains
   of the euthanized frogs' last meals.

   "That weird science kid totally knew what he was doing," fellow
   biology student Mike Warner said. "He's still a loser, but it was
   pretty cool when he showed us where the frog's balls were."

   Added Warner: "Courtney Olsen screamed like crazy when I pretended to
   throw mine at her."

   By the end of class, the weird teen had managed to speak to six
   different classmates for a combined 17 minutes of flop sweat-free
   conversation.

   "My mom's French, so I've actually eaten frog legs before," Hollis
   said. Miraculously, his comment failed to gross out or otherwise repel
   the majority of students.

   Hollis then began moving the dissected frog's mouth, making the
   lifeless creature plead not to be eaten, which earned Hollis a few
   halfhearted chuckles from nearby classmates for the first time in his
   life.

   Perhaps the most surprising event came when student council president
   Natalie Kranz asked Hollis where the elusive spleen was located. The
   resulting 30-second exchange with the most popular girl in school
   marked the longest period of communication with a female peer in
   Hollis' life, as well as the only known occurrence of direct eye
   contact.

   "Yeah, Steve [Sam] was a big help," Kranz said regarding the event
   Hollis will replay over and over in his mind for the next several
   years. "I really need good grades in this class or my parents aren't
   going to let me go to prom with Josh [Mueller]."

   According to those who have sort of known Hollis since elementary
   school, the classroom dissection was by far his most successful foray
   into normal social interactions. Past failed attempts include breaking
   his collarbone in third grade during a game of tag, and a poorly
   attended Battlestar Galactica-themed birthday party.

   Hollis, however, seemed optimistic about the possibilities of entering
   a new phase in his social life.

   "I really wish we were working on fetal pigs," said Hollis after
   turning in his tray and scalpel and offering to stay after class to
   gather and dispose of the gutted frogs. "It would be really
   interesting to cut open one of their hearts, because they're pretty
   similar to the human heart in a lot of ways."

   "[Hollis] said that?" Malnight asked upon hearing of his lab partner's
   continued interest in animal dissection. "What a fucking freak."

   Joe Torre

   NEW YORK--Saying the American League wild-card bid is "beneath the
   dignity of the Yankees organization" and "an affront to everything
   [we] stand for," New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner and
   manager Joe Torre told reporters during a press conference Wednesday
   that the Yankees have respectfully declined the opportunity to
   participate in Major League Baseball's postseason if they have to do
   so as the American League's wild-card team.

   "On behalf of the entire Yankee team: Thanks, but no thanks," said
   Steinbrenner, adding that the Yankees would only play in the 2007
   playoffs if they were able to take their "rightful place" as the
   American League East representatives. "Please don't patronize us with
   by making us the wild card. The New York Yankees aren't wild cards.
   We're the New York Yankees, for God's sake. The New York Yankees. And
   we have our dignity."

   "Wild card?" Steinbrenner added. "Please."

   The announcement came following a three-hour meeting between
   Steinbrenner, Torre, and baseball Commissioner Bud Selig, in which
   both Torre and Steinbrenner attempted to convince the commissioner
   that the Yankees were anything but wild cards--a position Steinbrenner
   later called "demeaning and pathetic."

   "We're not an unproven, intermediate expansion team whose qualities
   are unknown and whose team character has not been established," said
   Steinbrenner, referring to the strict definition of a wild card. "The
   wild card is for those lesser organizations, teams like the Colorado
   Rockies, or--ugh, I can't believe I am actually going to utter their
   name--the 'Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim.'" 

   "You have to consider the elite pedigree of this historic franchise,"
   Torre added. "The Yankees have won 26 World Series titles and 39
   American League pennants. To even think we would reduce ourselves to
   such an embarrassing position is an absurdity bordering on insanity.
   We might as well drop down to Single A."

   The Yankees, who finished the season with a 94-68 record, leaving them
   two games behind the Boston Red Sox in the AL East standings, are in
   fact statistically the American League wild-card team. Torre
   maintained, however, that the Yankees are above statistics, and answer
   to a "much higher calling."

   "We have family, friends, and billions upon billions of fans who
   deserve much more than for us to just submit to being spat upon,"
   Torre said. "The fact that we have, in the past, even participated in
   divisional series and league championship series is beneath us. I've
   been saying for some time that the Yankees should only have to play in
   one game the entire year: an intrasquad match to decide the world
   champion."

   Though the Yankees did accept wild-card births in both the 1995 and
   1997 seasons, Steinbrenner said he was not made aware of it at the
   time. Had he been, the Yankees' controversial, often polarizing owner
   stated, he would have most assuredly pulled his team out of the
   playoffs to show respect for Yankee greats such as Babe Ruth, Lou
   Gehrig, Joe DiMaggio, and Mickey Mantle--none of whom, Steinbrenner
   said, ever donned the pinstripes as a wild-card team.

   The wild-card system was introduced by Commissioner Selig in 1995.

   "I'm not even sure how this, what do you call it, 'wild card?'
   Right...how this wild card even works," said Yankees shortstop and
   team captain Derek Jeter, who made "air quotes" gestures every time he
   uttered the phrase. "Can a team even make it to the World Series from
   such a position? Seems like charity to me. And the Yankees are
   nobody's charity case."

   "Try to remember that the Yankees are blessed by God himself," Jeter
   added. "If God wanted us to be a wild-card team, He would have done so
   when He created the Yankees over 100 years ago." 

   When informed three of the last five World Series titles were, in
   fact, won by wild-card teams, catcher Jorge Posada stated that it was
   because other Major-League clubs acted out of the weakness of false
   sentiment, having felt sorry for "those lesser teams' lowly,
   disgusting, and frankly wretched position."

   "How do you think Florida beat us in 2003?" Posada said. "Because the
   Yankees are too classy a ball club to beat up on a clearly inferior
   team."

   Though the majority of the Yankee team affirmed their commitment to
   boycotting the playoffs if their wild-card status is not "corrected,"
   third baseman Alex Rodriguez stated he would still play, adding that
   with so many Yankees out of the lineup he would get more at-bats, more
   balls hit to him in the field, and would finally get a chance to
   pitch, a position Rodriguez said he is "probably pretty good at."


   SAN BRUNO, CA--In an effort to connect with younger voters and tap
   into the immense popularity of the video-sharing website, Democrat and
   Republican candidates participated in the first-ever presidential
   debates shown on YouTube to at least 11 viewers.
   [4]Enlarge Image Youtube Debate 

   An estimated 50 percent of the video's viewers clicked on the link by
   accident.

   The video debates--which received one comment, two stars, and was
   favorited by no one--featured candidates answering a variety of
   viewer-generated questions ranging from health care to the Iraq war,
   and racked up 4,881,990 fewer views than a 56-second video of a sleepy
   cat posted the same day.

   "Don't tase me, bro!" an unnamed University of Florida student said in
   a video that captured the attention of college-age men and women
   across the country. "Oww! Oww! Oww!"

   Despite being highlighted on YouTube's main page for the three weeks
   preceding and following each debate, the two videos remain among the
   site's least watched, receiving five fewer views than an identical
   debate video that was sped up and set to the popular novelty song
   "Yakety Sax." Nevertheless, 2008 Democratic candidate John Edwards
   reportedly called the debates a "success for modern elections" in an
   e-mail to CollegeHumor.com, urging the popular comedy outlet to please
   post the video somewhere, anywhere on its website.

   Although Republican frontrunner Rudolph Giuliani touted his ability to
   bring in literally hundreds of new viewers to November's GOP debate,
   the Federal Election Commission ruled that his campaign misled voters
   and broke federal law when it tagged the video as "Lindsay Lohan
   Britney Spears VMAs Boobs The Notebook Kiss Scene Juggling Letterman
   Spiderman." The FEC also discounted several accidental views resulting
   from searches for "Hilary Duff," "Dennis the Menace," and "Daily Show
   Republican Debate."

   While official YouTube estimates put the debates' total number of hits
   at just under a dozen, some candidates claimed the statistics had been
   miscalculated and should be rounded up to 13 to include the time
   Democratic candidate Joe Biden was unable to view the video because
   his dial-up Internet connection was too slow.

   Leaders from both parties said they were already looking forward to
   holding similar debates in 2008, and that the next round will feature
   expanded interactive features for YouTube members, more candid
   discussions between candidates, and a surprise ending involving Mentos
   and Diet Coke.


   BOSTON--According to a report released Monday by Boston University's
   School of Lifestyle Management, more than 180 trillion leisure hours
   were lost to work in 2004.

   [4]Enlarge Image 180 Trillion Leisure Hours Lost To Work In 2004 

   A Detroit resident spends valuable leisure hours at an auto plant.

   "The majority of American adults find work cutting into the middle of
   their days--exactly when leisure is most effective," said Adam
   Bernhardt, the Boston University sociology professor who headed the
   study. "The hours between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. are ideally suited to
   browsing stores, dozing in front of the television, and finishing the
   morning paper. Daytime hours are also the warmest and sunniest of the
   day, making them perfect for outdoor activities. Unfortunately, most
   Americans can't enjoy leisure during this time, for the simple reason
   that they're 'at work.'"

   In addition to surveying 12,000 citizens nationwide, researchers
   studied data from seven different government agencies.

   Deborah Kletter, an expert in the field of rest and relaxation,
   emphasized the pervasive nature of the problem, which she said affects
   96 percent of employable Americans year-round.

   "Week after week of potential relaxation time is squandered to jobs,
   with millions of would-be leisurers prohibited from sleeping in,
   working on hobbies, or taking trips," said Kletter, executive director
   of the Five-To-Nine Foundation. "An average employed person's ability
   to stroll aimlessly around his town and 'do whatever' is basically
   nonexistent 49 weeks out of the year."

   Kletter said there is a vast disparity between the U.S. and Europe,
   where a strong leisure ethic is taught during youth.

   "Americans simply can't keep up with the European leisure force,"
   Kletter said. "In such fields as suntanning, skiing, and cooking
   elaborate meals that can be eaten over the course of an entire
   evening, Europe has us beat."

   The report's internals reveal that full-time workers are hit hardest,
   with part-time workers coming in a close second, and freelancers
   marking a distant third.

   [5]Enlarge Image 180 Trillion Leisure Hours Lost To Work In 2004 jump 

   A group of friends enjoy some rare leisure hours in Sunnyvale, CA.

   "Ironically, the unemployed fared the best in this report," Kletter
   said. "One of the questions that remains unanswered, unfortunately, is
   how jobless citizens' high number of available leisure hours somehow
   fails to translate into overall happiness."

   Bernhardt and Kletter found that employed persons do find one small
   but regular opportunity for leisure.

   "In general, Saturdays and Sundays were unaffected by work," Kletter
   said. "Unfortunately, this fact does little more than underscore the
   fact that a serious problem exists five out of seven days of the
   week."

   The loss of leisure-related revenue is another factor to consider,
   Kletter said.

   "Leisure-time reduction is costing America billions of dollars in
   weekday concert-ticket revenue, airfare, and violin lessons," Kletter
   said. "I don't understand why the government hasn't already stepped
   in."

   Kletter said that, "on the bright side," many Americans have learned
   to reclaim leisure time through aggressive multi-tasking.

   "Americans have an impressive ability to do several things at once,"
   said Kletter, who compiled the at-office leisure figures.
   "Enterprising workers managed to shop online, have long-distance
   telephone conversations with friends, and stare at their cubicle walls
   for hours. Those findings are very encouraging."

   Bernhardt and Kletter acknowledged that their report was responsible
   for the loss of nearly 2,000 leisure hours.


   KIRKSVILLE, MO--Jon Strauss, 22, a Kirksville video-store manager,
   announced Monday that he supports U.S. troops "100 percent"--with the
   exception of the ones with whom he went to high school.

   [4]Enlarge Image Area Man Supports 

   Strauss, who said he backs "99.9 percent" of America's troops.

   "My heart goes out to the troops, and I pray for their safe return,"
   said Strauss, a 1998 graduate of Kirksville High School. "Except for
   that dick Andy Tischler. I hope the Iraqis capture him and torture his
   wedgie-inflicting ass."

   Though he expressed mixed feelings about the war against Iraq, Strauss
   said he feels it is vital for Americans to stand united behind the
   nation's fighting men and women in uniform. He draws the line,
   however, at his former classmates.

   "Troy Nowicki, this guy who was in my junior-year gym class, is in the
   Navy now," Strauss said. "He was on the football team, and he used to
   love to tease me and give me purple nurples and generally make my life
   miserable. Once, he head-butted me so hard, I couldn't hear for an
   hour. Fucking asshole. Yeah, I'm really praying for his safe return."

   Strauss has tied a yellow ribbon around a tree in front of his
   parents' home, where he is temporarily living, to show his support for
   the troops. He also sports an American-flag pin on his shirt at work.

   "We can't let our soldiers feel like they're also facing an enemy on
   the homefront," Strauss said. "They have enough to worry about without
   hearing that their own country isn't behind them. Could you imagine
   how demoralizing that would be? It would be as traumatic as the time I
   had to give a speech on the Teapot Dome scandal at a school assembly,
   and Ricky Dorner kept whipping pennies at me the whole time. Ricky's a
   Marine now, and I heard his division got deployed to Tikrit, where
   they came under heavy fire from the Republican Guard. Haven't heard a
   casualty report yet."

   [5]Enlarge Image Area Man Supports Jump 

   A 1997 photo of U.S. Marine Ricky Dorner, whom Strauss called "a
   world-class asshole."

   Strauss, like many Americans, said he believes the U.S. has learned
   its lesson from its poor treatment of Vietnam War soldiers. Today,
   even the staunchest anti-war activist is likely to agree that the
   soldiers are only carrying out the will of the policy-makers and
   deserve the nation's sympathy and good wishes.

   "For a lot of young people, the military is the only option," Strauss
   said. "Like Frank Deroia, this burnout who used to sit at the back of
   the school bus and loudly make fun of my clothes every day. Well, he
   joined the Army, and now I guess he's being treated like some kind of
   hero because he was one of the troops who secured Baghdad
   International Airport. Meanwhile, I've got a bachelor's degree and I'm
   stuck in Kirksville working at Blockbuster. How is that fair?"

   Strauss' friends say they are well aware of his feelings about
   America's troops.

   "Jon was very moved by the horrible POW ordeal of Pfc. Jessica Lynch,"
   longtime friend Will Arbus said. "He said she seems like a really
   sweet girl, the kind of person who would treat classmates with
   kindness and respect. Nothing like Lance Corporal Craig Veryzer of the
   103rd Infantry. Apparently, Craig was fond of ridiculing Jon's
   less-than-perfect skin. Boy, does Jon hate that prick."


   MIDDLEBURY, VT--"Life begins at 90." So goes the motto of spunky area
   senior Archibald Munson, 91 years young and still as active as ever.
   While others may imagine retired life to be dull, this resident of the
   Middlebury Home For The Aged stays active and vital with his favorite
   hobby-filling his trousers with his own bowel movements up to 40 hours
   a week!

   [4]Enlarge Image Area Senior Stays Active 

   Archibald Munson

   State-regulated dietary requirements guarantee that Munson gets three
   high-roughage meals a day, keeping him regular and ensuring the hefty,
   high-volume defecations that keep him on top of his game. While
   nursing-home staffers say that trouser-filling among 90-year-olds is
   common, Munson continually impresses, rising above the crowd with the
   most voluminously packed trousers on the ward.

   Yes, while many seniors fill their pants on occasion, Munson is
   clearly the champ. Moving his bowels with incredible regularity allows
   this sporty old-timer to stay in tip-top shape, a lesson we could all
   afford to learn.

   "He's not very lucid, as over the years Alzheimer's has caused most of
   the higher functions of his brain to erode," said Dr. Frank Gehry, who
   checks in on Munson once a week. "Yet, despite his dim awareness of
   his surroundings and identity, Archie's fighting spirit remains strong
   as a bull. He is blessed with incredible will power, which continually
   pushes him to keep filling his pants more voluminously and frequently
   than before."

   With a reputation like that, Munson has more than earned the respect
   of those around him. "Arch maintains a strict program of 10 to 20
   trouser-fillings each morning, afternoon and evening, as well as at
   least one or two bedsheet changes during the night while he sleeps,"
   said nursing assistant Gwen Travis, Munson's state-appointed
   caregiver. "He's a real trooper, the way he just keeps filling and
   filling his pants without ever tiring, day after day."

   And it's not just his trousers he fills, either. According to
   nursing-home staffers, Munson's Texas-sized loads have also been found
   in some of the darnedest spots: the laundry-room dryer, pillowcases, a
   big box of rubber gloves nurses use when cleaning up urine. Even in
   other residents' shoes!

   And when he's finished unloading, Munson still remains plenty active,
   fighting and struggling with nursing-home personnel as they attempt to
   remove his clothes and clean him up. In one instance, he even bit
   through an orderly's skin.

   "He's really proud of his achievements," Travis said. She then smiled,
   adding, "Sometimes, he tenaciously clings to the accumulated fecal
   matter, like he doesn't want us to take it away!"

   Through sheer perseverance, Munson has increased fecal volume per
   evacuation by more than 60 percent since 1995. What's more, he now
   defecates up to six cubic inches at a time, a figure that has stunned
   medical experts and nursing-home officials alike.

   Never content to rest on his laurels, Munson continually strives to
   reach ever-greater defecatory heights. Pacing himself against other
   retirees during walks at the local shopping mall, Munson can fill his
   trousers up to eight times during a single two-hour walk, beating out
   other mall-walking seniors by a wide margin.

   With all his achievements, it's not surprising that Munson has become
   a true celebrity in Middlebury. In the whole town, there's not a
   single resident who doesn't recognize his trademark lumpy trousers or
   his well-known training slogan of, "Where the hell's my goddamned
   wife, you bastards!"--a fond tribute to his wife Edna, who died in
   1978.

   Not that trouser-soiling is Munson's only interest. Far from it! His
   favorite TV show is Rat Patrol, and staffers can always tell how much
   he enjoys it by the way he hurls large wads of his feces at the
   rec-room television set whenever the show is on.

   As if all that weren't enough, he also loves working with kids. He
   once wowed a fourth-grade class of Christmas carolers by expelling an
   entire pound of excrement in excitement. Now that's the Christmas
   spirit! Archibald Munson: We salute you!


   ROCKLAND, DE--Local resident Heather Telford's entire Friday was
   ruined by a set of uncooperative bangs that refused to set correctly,
   the 26-year-old benefits coordinator told reporters.
   [4]Enlarge Image Area Woman 

   "Why me? Why today?" Telford asked.

   According to Telford, the trouble began "right away" as she got ready
   for work, when she discovered that the three inches of
   forehead-skirting hair was unable to sit flat, despite the application
   of numerous gels, sprays, and pomades. A tuft on either side would not
   integrate with the central grouping, leaving three-quarter-inch gaps,
   while other wispy strands strayed from her temples, creating a highly
   undesirable "wing" effect. A last-ditch effort to wet and restyle the
   bangs only worsened their state, adding several more small kinks and
   increasing their overall dishevelment.

   "It was so awful," Telford said. "I should've just called in sick
   after I found out that my straightening iron was broken, because the
   whole day went downhill from there. I can't imagine a worse thing
   happening to me."

   The bangs went on to adversely affect every element of Telford's day,
   including her commute, her interactions with coworkers, the way food
   tasted, and even the sound of her voice.

   "I kept feeling these awful little wayward pieces brushing against my
   face, and I couldn't think about anything else," Telford said. "I
   could just sense people's eyes burning holes into my forehead as I
   passed by the water cooler. I can't blame them. I looked like a
   complete freak."
     Area Woman Timeline

   Telford spent most of her hour-long lunch break locked in her office,
   trying unsuccessfully to pin back the bangs with a barrette she found
   in her desk drawer.

   In the early afternoon, she was forced to present a new
   employee-wellness initiative at a meeting with company executives that
   she was unable to cancel.

   Telford said her bosses were polite throughout her presentation, but
   were also "clearly trying not to burst out laughing" at her bangs.

   "I'm not surprised they passed on the proposal--I just can't believe
   they didn't fire me on the spot," said Telford, who delivered her
   entire presentation while compulsively smoothing down the left portion
   of her bangs.

   "How could they take me seriously with the state my hair was in?"
   Telford said. "Months of work down the drain all because my stupid,
   stupid bangs are so stupid."

   The bangs, which Telford acquired five years ago in an attempt to
   frame her face and convince her ex-boyfriend he had made a big mistake
   by leaving her, have ruined an estimated 47 workdays, three vacations,
   and countless photos.

   Blaming her errant bangs on a combination of genetics and routinely
   "sleeping on them funny," Telford said that their fine, flyaway nature
   and penchant for being either too long or too short exceed even the
   two-inch-wide port-wine birthmark on her hip as her most bothersome
   physical shortcoming.

   "I'm about this close to cutting the damn things off myself, I swear
   to God," Telford said.

   Though she has considered transitioning to a less stressful hairstyle,
   she said the process of growing the bangs out would be "10,000 times
   worse."

   "I'd have to go through this awful period where they'd be at this odd,
   floppy length, and it would just suck," Telford said. "So I can either
   grow them out and look like a Yorkshire terrier, or keep them short
   and look like a mental patient. Those are my basic hair options right
   now."

   Following a "humiliating" but unavoidable visit to the supermarket,
   Telford's plans to return home, shower, and go to bed were foiled by a
   surprise birthday party organized by her roommates in her honor. The
   party, attended by Telford's close friends, parents, and people not
   seen since high school, included presents, lots of champagne drinking,
   and photos, and was the absolute worst conceivable thing that could
   have ever happened to her.


   NEW YORK--Even in the air-conditioned confines of New York's John F.
   Kennedy Airport back on June 14, Abu Basir Yousef was sweating.
   [4]Enlarge Image Yousef 

   Terrorist Yousef waits in vain for his dirty bomb.

   His sole piece of luggage--a black duffel bag--was lost upon his
   arrival in New York.

   Despite hours of waiting, and several U.S. Airways check-in counter
   workers and Transportation Security Administration screeners joining
   in the search, the Yemen-born 32-year-old had yet to hear any positive
   updates. Finally, a baggage claim representative approached him.

   "Afraid I've got some bad news," the worker said to Yousef.

   Airline personnel had searched the plane, the tarmac, and the gate,
   but were still unable to locate his bag containing his homemade dirty
   bomb.

   "My trip was ruined," Yousef said. "But Allah will right this wrong."

   Most Americans have grown accustomed to inconvenience in the name of
   security, be it color-coded anxieties or metal detectors at public
   libraries. But al-Qaeda member Yousef lived a nightmare scenario that
   would cause even the most frequent of flyers to shudder.

   After a cramped, twice-delayed U.S. Airways flight that he said would
   be "the last of my life," Yousef sat and stared for hours at an empty,
   rotating baggage carousel at JFK, searching in vain for his expensive
   and fragile cargo, unaware that it was currently being routed and
   re-routed around the country.

   Over the next three days, it would arrive at virtually every major
   domestic destination--except for its intended one, New York--and
   eventually wind up among the Father's Day gifts and matching bags in
   Lambert-St. Louis International Airport.

   According to U.S. Airways, the luggage lingered in St. Louis after an
   unscheduled side trip to Dallas, a short stint in Charlotte, NC and
   even a surprise UPS delivery to a suburban home in Michigan.

   When informed that somebody had mistakenly taken his luggage home,
   opened it, and called the airline, who returned it--two days later--to
   Detroit's Metro Airport, Yousef could only shake his head.

   "The U.S. truly is the Great Satan," he said.

   His case is but one among thousands. In a busy summer season with
   multiple new security regulations, baggage blunders like this leave
   travelers like Yousef with no choice but to shrug and laugh at their
   all-too-common horror stories.

   But the sheer number of unintentional side-trips taken by this
   particular radioactive weapon forced U.S. Airways' Vice President For
   Consumer Affairs Bryce Fox to admit that "baggage mishandling history"
   may have been made.

   "We sincerely apologize to Mr. Yousef for sending his explosive device
   to St. Louis--eventually," Fox said, chuckling. "Had we paid a little
   more attention, we would have definitely known St. Louis was not this
   bomb's final destination. At least we can say that it was not damaged,
   or really even touched, by TSA staff."

   By the 22nd, over a week since Yousef discovered his bomb was missing,
   the duffel bag finally reached JFK. Yet even an attempt to contact him
   at his Bronx home about its arrival proved a comedy of errors. A
   mispronunciation of Yousef's name in the baggage claim office resulted
   in the bag being returned to another traveler in the airport that
   day--air marshal Abe Joseph.

   "I took one look inside and realized that somebody was probably pretty
   upset to be missing such a complicated piece of equipment," Joseph
   said. "I brought it to security, and they held me up for more than an
   hour with the thing, and when they finally passed it through, what did
   they do? They dropped it. Twice."

   Added Joseph: "Welcome to New York."

   It's hard to believe that one innocent-looking, dirty-bomb-holding
   black duffel bag could wreak so much havoc, an irony not lost on
   Yousef. "These infidels must die," he said.

   U.S. Airways spokeswoman Deborah Shier once again apologized to Yousef
   and said that the airline had returned his bag via private courier
   back to his Bronx apartment on Thursday. "We sincerely appreciate his
   business, and hope he will consider U.S. Airways for future flights,"
   Shier said. "I can assure him those flights will most likely go a lot
   smoother."

   Yousef may have his luggage back safe, but nevertheless refuses to do
   business again with U.S. Airways, saying that he has "another
   important mission" to attend to on the West Coast--one where his bomb
   will, no doubt, be better treated.


   SAN FRANCISCO--Although Barry Bonds remains the target of criticism
   over his possible--some say almost certain--use of
   performance-enhancing substances, the fact that Bonds has not been
   implicated in dogfighting, nightclub shootings, gambling, or murdering
   his family has transformed his controversial pursuit of the all-time
   home-run record into the feel-good sports story of the summer.
   [4]Enlarge Image Bonds 

   "Until we have definitive proof one way or the other, the very
   presence of so many questions about Bonds and steroids will haunt his
   achievements forever," ESPN's Peter Gammons said Monday. "However, at
   this moment, I think we'd all have to agree that having a raging
   juiced-up misanthrope break the greatest record in sports is a ray of
   sunshine compared to everything else on the sports page."

   "What kind of person electrocutes dogs, let alone fights them?"
   Gammons added. "I simply can't comprehend it. Go, Barry!"

   While Bonds has been routinely greeted with booing and jeering
   whenever he played outside of San Francisco, the taunting seems to
   have abated for the moment as sports fans across America lapse into a
   reflective silence as Bonds approaches the plate.

   "I know Bonds is probably 100% pharmaceutical Frankenstein," said
   Brewers fan Charles Michaels, who waved a banner reading "Make Us
   Relatively Proud, Barry" while not exactly rooting against Bonds at
   Milwaukee's Miller Park Sunday night. "But I also know for a certainty
   that gambling problems didn't compel him to affect the outcome of the
   NBA playoffs. You have to give him that much."

   "Bonds is not exactly my hero," said Braves fan Bradley Hanson, who
   flew to San Francisco for Monday night's Braves game in order to
   pointedly not boo Bonds. "But he's a reminder that in these troubled
   times for sports, there are still players whose crimes are simple,
   pure, and only tarnish our beloved sport and everything it stands for
   without killing anybody."

   Bonds defiantly refuses to acknowledge, much less answer, any of the
   dozens of questions regarding his use of illegal substances, often
   lashing out at clubhouse reporters asking even innocuous
   baseball-related questions. Yet as of press time, Bonds had not yet
   been involved in even one single murder.

   "Say what you want about Bonds, but he's not a murderer, or even an
   attempted murderer," San Francisco Chronicle reporter and co-author of
   Game Of Shadows Lance Williams wrote in Sunday's edition. "The only
   thing I believe Bonds did was inject himself with Winstrol,
   Deca-Durabolin, insulin, testosterone, synthetic testosterone,
   testosterone decanoate, human growth hormones, Norbolethone,
   Trenbolone, Clomid, and possibly commercial racehorse laxatives, all
   in order to make himself a better athlete. Not to allow himself to
   gut-shoot a gentleman's club bouncer, but to become a better athlete.
   A better athlete...it doesn't seem so bad when you think about it like
   that."

   "It's a relief of sorts to see someone putting performance first,"
   Frank Deford said in a New York Times Magazine editorial Sunday. "I
   think we all believe that Barry has taken steroids, and that they made
   him into a hulking monster who rewrote the record books. But they
   didn't turn him into a hulking monster who drugged his wife and
   children into unconsciousness before strangling them to death and
   hanging himself from a weight bench. And in these troubled times,
   Bonds' performance is one we can all reluctantly applaud."


   COLUMBUS, OH--In an announcement that received wide attention
   throughout Wolverine's tavern Tuesday, bar skanks Stephanie Fletcher
   and Jessica Keneally stated that they would share a passionate kiss at
   an unspecified time that evening.

   "Steph and I are totally hot for each other," Keneally said over the
   loud music to several unspecified bar patrons. "We're going to make
   out. We don't care who's watching."
   [4]Enlarge Image Bar Skanks 

   The skanks pose for one of the hundreds of pictures taken over the
   course of the night.

   According to eyewitnesses who looked up the second they walked in the
   door, the 22-year-old skanks arrived at the bar at approximately 10
   p.m, dressed in their usual skank attire of low-cut tank tops paired
   with either low-rider jeans or a short skirt, and exposed, brightly
   colored thongs.

   After downing their third cosmopolitans, the two skanks stood up and
   began grinding to the R. Kelly song "I'm a Flirt," which caused a
   nearby conversation about the Cleveland Indians to come to a sudden
   halt.

   "Quit staring," Keneally said to the approximately 25 male patrons in
   the immediate vicinity, all of whom were by that time involuntarily
   ogling the skank-ass pair. "Oh my God, you guys are such pervs."

   Fletcher would neither confirm nor deny that the kiss would involve
   tongue, saying that bargoers "would just have to wait."
   [5]Enlarge Image Bar Skanks 

   The skank duo gyrates lasciviously as a growing crowd of men capture
   mental images for later use.

   "Who knows what will go down," Fletcher said as she reached into
   Keneally's tight top and tweaked her left breast with her thumb and
   middle finger in front of seven rapt onlookers. "Possibly us."

   In previous months, Keneally and Fletcher have, either separately or
   together, shown off their lower-back tattoos, held a loud conversation
   about who had the larger breasts, and displayed their oral sex
   techniques on bottles of Bud Light. Neither is a lesbian.

   "Those chicks are all over each other-- awesome!" said 24-year-old
   Matt Lalley, one of dozens of slightly intoxicated males who, despite
   their highly evolved brains, were unable to stop looking at the
   suggestive twosome. "This is going to be the best night of my life."

   As the evening wore on, the skanks' hair grew lank and stringy,
   increasingly clinging to their sweaty faces despite frequent
   coquettish head tosses. The heat and close quarters of the small bar
   also caused  the sparkly body makeup worn by Fletcher to collect in
   the crevices of her collarbone and between her breasts. According to
   Wolverine's bartender Helene Dorman, the skanks also left thick hot
   pink lipstick prints on their drink glasses.

   However, none of these factors resulted in any decrease in the amount
   of attention paid to the skanks.

   "I just can't look away," said Frank Sturm, watching as Keneally
   leaned over the pool table to display her plunging neckline for the
   ninth time. "And the thing is, the one in the skirt isn't even all
   that hot."

   "I'd really like to think I'm above this," Sturm's friend, Greg
   Kleist, added. "But what can I say? I'm not. They're totally going to
   kiss."

   Not everyone was as enthusiastic about the pair's announcement. A
   28-year-old female bar patron rolled her eyes at the girls'
   predictable antics, and was immediately dismissed by Fletcher and
   Keneally as "jealous." The bartender reported that she'd seen similar
   scenes play out on countless other evenings.

   "You mean the one that flashed her tits last week is gonna make out
   with the girl who was telling everyone she wasn't wearing any
   underwear?" Dorman asked while setting out newly washed glasses.
   "Whatever."

   As of press time, the pair had still not kissed, as they were rumored
   to be waiting for someone to buy them another drink before astonishing
   onlookers with their shocking intra-gender lip-lock.


   CHICAGO--As Brian Urlacher triumphantly hoisted the George Halas
   Trophy Sunday, it was a symbol of more than just the Bears' 39-14
   victory over New Orleans--it was a symbol of hope to the thousands of
   Chicagoans who are still struggling to resume normal lives after the
   fire that swept through a 2,000-acre swath of downtown, killed over
   300 people, injured hundreds more, destroyed a third of Chicago's
   buildings, and left 100,000 residents homeless this past Oct. 8
   through Oct. 10, 1871.
   [4]Enlarge Image Bears Inspire A City Still Reeling From Great Chicago
   Fire Of 1871 

   "No disrespect to the Saints," Urlacher said, "but as much as this
   victory would have meant for any team, after what our city has been
   through, it means much more to us. Hopefully, going to the Super Bowl
   will help the people of Chicago put the terrible events of 135 years
   ago behind them."

   Coach Lovie Smith knows that just going to the Super Bowl, or even
   winning it, will do little to help the city rebuild, but says he is
   "humbled" by the inspiration Chicago residents feel when his team
   wins.

   "We know winning the Super Bowl won't put up a single ravaged building
   or house a single displaced family," Smith said in a press conference
   after the NFC championship game. "At this point, there's little we can
   do for the victims. But as long as we can inspire the community to
   hold on and get past what the Great Fire has done to them, we'll have
   done our job."

   "Everywhere I go, people are like, 'Thank you for what you're doing.
   Thank you for giving us hope.' And some of them are people whose
   families lost everything--homes, livestock, wagons, everything," said
   quarterback Rex Grossman, who has donated every game check of the
   postseason to the Chicago Fire Historical Society. "And I tell them,
   'No, thank you. After what you've been through over the past century
   or so, you give us a lot of hope.'"
   [5]Enlarge Image Bears Inspire Jump 

   Chicago had an uphill battle for recovery from the devastating blaze,
   a struggle made more difficult by drought, economic collapse, civil
   unrest between the city's Protestants, Catholics, and many recently
   freed slaves, and the apparent indifference to the city's plight by
   uncharismatic and unpopular Republican president Ulysses S. Grant.
   Still, the townspeople's imagination was captured by the successful
   rebuilding of the Chicago Bears, a task once seen as impossible.

   "In the days after the fire, there basically were no Chicago Bears,"
   said Mayor Richard Daley. "It took men of vision to found the team in
   nearby Decatur in 1919, move them to Chicago in 1921, and hire George
   Halas to coach them. The Bears made a huge effort to attract such
   great players such as Red Grange, Sid Luckman, Dick Butkus, Walter
   Payton, and Brian Urlacher. Basically, since the fire, they've turned
   the team from a total nonentity to a championship contender."

   "The people of Chicago see that and think, 'Hey, if the Bears can do
   that, we can make this city great again,'" he added.

   Schaumburg resident Tom Berry, a clothing salesman who bought Bears
   tickets as soon after the fire as he could afford them, knows what the
   team means to the area. "People lost great-great-grandfathers in the
   fire. Great-great-great grandfathers lost children in that fire. I
   think unless you were there, you wouldn't understand," Berry said.
   "You walk around downtown, look around at the historical sites of all
   that devastation, and it kind of brings you down."

   "Except on Sundays," Berry added. "On Sundays, you sit down and watch
   the Bears and somehow you just forget about all that, if only for a
   while."


   LOS ANGELES--Actor Ben Affleck, best known for his role in the 2003
   film Daredevil, told reporters Monday he would really like to see
   action hero Jason Bourne, played by longtime friend Matt Damon,
   acquire a sidekick in his next film.
   [4]Enlarge Image Ben Affleck 

   Affleck outside the William Morris Agency in Beverly Hills on Monday.

   "I was thinking that the character, who would probably be Bourne's
   childhood friend, could really breathe some new life into the series,"
   said Affleck, adding that the Jason Bourne character ran the risk of
   boring American audiences if the superspy wasn't allowed to show a
   more human side in his films. "I envision the sidekick as being
   taller, slightly beefier, and having darker hair than Bourne. He may
   not be the smartest, but he could provide comic relief and would
   always look out for his best friend."

   "I know a few people who would play the part," the Jersey Girl and
   Gigli star continued. "Hell, even I would put some projects aside to
   do it if that's what the producers wanted."

   According to Affleck, the fourth film in the Bourne franchise, which
   has traditionally taken place in European locales but was most
   recently set in New York City, needs a refreshing location that would
   surprise filmgoers, such as gritty South Boston. Just moments after
   the opening credits, the amnesiac CIA assassin would learn that he
   grew up there, had an abusive childhood, dropped out of high school,
   and once worked  as a janitor at a local college.

   Affleck said he ultimately imagined the film as being less a
   traditional spy thriller and more about friendship and the importance
   of realizing one's true potential.

   "The sidekick represents the kind of life Bourne would have lived had
   he never gone off and become a hotshot CIA agent with a big-time
   career," said Affleck, who described the new character as having
   suffered a string of bad luck and made a number of poor life choices.
   "Basically, his character would kill to have Bourne's natural fighting
   and spying ability, but it's his role in the movie to show Bourne that
   even though he is a very gifted and talented individual, he should
   never leave his old friends behind."

   Though Affleck, who offered to write the script for free, anticipates
   more lengthy scenes of dialogue than is typical for a Bourne film, he
   promised the movie would not be without its signature fight sequences.
   Affleck said he had already storyboarded one scene, set at a Boston
   Red Sox game, in which Bourne, the sidekick, and another high school
   friend, played by director Kevin Smith, get into a fast-paced drunken
   argument over the film Star Wars and each of their respective mothers.

   "How do you like them apples?" said Affleck, referring to what the
   sidekick could theoretically say after Bourne breaks the necks of
   several security guards at Fenway Park.

   Affleck, who won a Teen Choice Award for his work in 2001's Pearl
   Harbor, said he plans to pitch the idea to Damon the next time the two
   see each other, hopefully at an Emmy Awards after-party next month. If
   Affleck loses his invitation for the event Damon is attending, as he
   reportedly did last year, he and Damon will discuss the project during
   one of the rare weekends in which Damon is not working on a film and
   both actors happen to be at home in their native Massachusetts at the
   same time.

   "I really think he'll go for this," Affleck said. "I know Matt Damon
   better than anyone in the world, and I just know he's going to love
   this. I know it. He just has to."

   While admitting that a fourth Bourne film has not been discussed,
   executive producer Doug Liman agreed that a sidekick character might
   be worth exploring. Liman wrote in an e-mail Friday that he already
   had a short list of possible candidates for the role, including Vince
   Vaughn, John C. Reilly, Luke Wilson, Tim Robbins, Minnie Driver,
   Philip Seymour Hoffman, Casey Affleck, Don Cheadle, and Adam Sandler.


   CHARLESTON, SC--After spending two months accompanying his wife,
   Hillary, on the campaign trail, former president Bill Clinton
   announced Monday that he is joining the 2008 presidential race, saying
   he "could no longer resist the urge."

   "My fellow Americans, I am sick and tired of not being president,"
   said Clinton, introducing his wife at a "Hillary '08" rally. "For
   seven agonizing years, I have sat idly by as others experienced the
   joys of campaigning, debating, and interacting with the people of this
   great nation, and I simply cannot take it anymore. I have to be
   president again. I have to."
   [4]Enlarge Image Bill Clinton 

   "Damn, this feels good," Clinton told supporters as he shook hands in
   Charleston Monday.

   He continued, "It is with a great sense of relief that I say to all of
   you today, 'Screw it. I'm in.'"

   In a show of respect, Clinton then completed his introduction of
   Hillary Clinton, calling her a "wonderful wife and worthy political
   adversary," and warmly shook her hand as she approached the podium. A
   clearly shocked Mrs. Clinton got halfway through her speech about the
   nation's obligation to its children before walking briskly offstage.

   A spokesman for Sen. Clinton's campaign had no comment.

   "No longer will I have to endure watching candidates like Hillary
   Clinton engaging in single-pump handshakes with voters, as I use every
   last ounce of restraint not to shout out, 'No! Warm double-clasp! Warm
   double-clasp!'" Clinton said. "America deserves someone who can do it
   right."

   While the announcement has come as a surprise to many, Beltway
   observers said it was not completely unexpected, citing footage from a
   recent Democratic debate that showed Clinton fidgeting in his seat,
   gripping the arms of his chair, and repeatedly glancing at all the
   television cameras while rapidly tapping his right foot. Analysts also
   noted one debate in which Clinton mouthed responses to all the
   moderator's questions while making hand gestures to himself.

   Clinton told reporters Tuesday that seeing so many "Clinton '08"
   posters "really got [him] thinking," and said that the fact that he
   was already wearing a suit, and smiling and waving on the campaign
   trail was an added motivator.

   "From signing healthcare reform legislation, to working with
   politicians from across the aisle, to brokering international peace
   treaties with foreign dignitaries, I goddamn love being president,"
   Clinton said. "For too long has this nation been deprived of a Bill
   Clinton presidency, and for too long have I been deprived of being
   president. Now I get to experience all these wonderful things again
   myself."

   "And the applause," Clinton added. "I look forward to the endless roar
   of applause perhaps most of all."

   Since his announcement two days ago, Clinton has raised a staggering
   $550 million. He has also surged in national polls, rising from a mere
   2 percent prior to his candidacy to a commanding 94 percent, ahead of
   former front-runners Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton, who are now
   tied with 3 percent each. John Edwards withdrew from the race Tuesday,
   saying only, "I am not worthy."

   Although some have pointed out that it is unconstitutional for Clinton
   to run for a third term in office, he has silenced most critics by
   urging voters "not to worry about the Constitution for now" and
   assuring them he will address those legal issues immediately after
   regaining control of the White House.

   "All I am asking of the American people is four more years," Clinton
   said at a fundraiser Tuesday where tens of thousands of South
   Carolinians gathered to stare in gape-jawed wonderment at the former
   president. "Well, maybe eight. Actually, you know what, definitely
   eight. Eight more years."

   Thus far, the response among voters has been positive.

   "I love Bill Clinton," said Orangeburg, SC resident Marsha Demarais.
   "God, he was just so great as president. Can we just make him
   president again right now?"

   Clinton also noted that, if elected, the timing would be perfect for
   his family, as his wife has recently expressed a desire to move back
   to the D.C. area.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Flanked by key members of Congress and his
   administration, President Bush approved Monday a streamlined version
   of the Bill of Rights that pares its 10 original amendments down to a
   "tight, no-nonsense" six.

   [4]Enlarge Image Bush signs 

   As supporters look on, Bush signs the Bill Of Rights Reduction And
   Consolidation Act.

   A Republican initiative that went unopposed by congressional
   Democrats, the revised Bill of Rights provides citizens with a "more
   manageable" set of privacy and due-process rights by eliminating four
   amendments and condensing and/or restructuring five others. The Second
   Amendment, which protects the right to keep and bear arms, was the
   only article left unchanged.

   Calling the historic reduction "a victory for America," Bush promised
   that the new document would do away with "bureaucratic impediments to
   the flourishing of democracy at home and abroad."

   "It is high time we reaffirmed our commitment to this enduring symbol
   of American ideals," Bush said. "By making the Bill of Rights a tool
   for progress instead of a hindrance to freedom, we honor the true
   spirit of our nation's forefathers."

   The Fourth Amendment, which long protected citizens' homes against
   unreasonable search and seizure, was among the eliminated amendments.
   Also stricken was the Ninth Amendment, which stated that the
   enumeration of certain Constitutional rights does not result in the
   abrogation of rights not mentioned.

   "Quite honestly, I could never get my head around what the Ninth
   Amendment meant anyway," said outgoing House Majority Leader Dick
   Armey (R-TX), one of the leading advocates of the revised Bill of
   Rights. "So goodbye to that one."

   Amendments V through VII, which guaranteed the right to legal counsel
   in criminal cases, and guarded against double jeopardy, testifying
   against oneself, biased juries, and drawn-out trials, have been
   condensed into Super-Amendment V: The One About Trials.

   Attorney General John Ashcroft hailed the slimmed-down Bill of Rights
   as "a positive step."

   "Go up to the average citizen and ask them what's in the Bill of
   Rights," Ashcroft said. "Chances are, they'll have only a vague
   notion. They just know it's a set of rules put in place to protect
   their individual freedoms from government intrusion, and they assume
   that's a good thing."

   [5]Enlarge Image Bill of rights revisions 

   Bush works on revisions to the Bill of Rights.

   Ashcroft responded sharply to critics who charge that the Bill of
   Rights no longer safeguards certain basic, inalienable rights.

   "We're not taking away personal rights; we're increasing personal
   security," Ashcroft said. "By allowing for greater government control
   over the particulars of individual liberties, the Bill of Rights will
   now offer expanded personal freedoms whenever they are deemed
   appropriate and unobtrusive to the activities necessary to effective
   operation of the federal government."

   Ashcroft added that, thanks to several key additions, the Bill of
   Rights now offers protections that were previously lacking, including
   the right to be protected by soldiers quartered in one's home
   (Amendment III), the guarantee that activities not specifically
   delegated to the states and people will be carried out by the federal
   government (Amendment VI), and freedom of Judeo-Christianity and
   non-combative speech (Amendment I).

   According to U.S. Sen. Larry Craig (R-ID), the original Bill of
   Rights, though well-intentioned, was "seriously outdated."

   "The United States is a different place than it was back in 1791,"
   Craig said. "As visionary as they were, the framers of the
   Constitution never could have foreseen, for example, that our
   government would one day need to jail someone indefinitely without
   judicial review. There was no such thing as suspicious Middle Eastern
   immigrants back then."

   Ashcroft noted that recent FBI efforts to conduct investigations into
   "unusual activities" were severely hampered by the old Fourth
   Amendment.

   "The Bill of Rights was written more than 200 years ago, long before
   anyone could even fathom the existence of wiretapping technology or
   surveillance cameras," Ashcroft said. "Yet through a bizarre fluke, it
   was still somehow worded in such a way as to restrict use of these
   devices. Clearly, it had to go before it could do more serious damage
   in the future."

   The president agreed.

   "Any machine, no matter how well-built, periodically needs a tune-up
   to keep it in good working order," Bush said. "Now that we have the
   bugs worked out of the ol' Constitution, she'll be purring like a
   kitten when Congress reconvenes in January--just in time to work on a
   new round of counterterrorism legislation."

   "Ten was just too much of a handful," Bush added. "Six civil liberties
   are more than enough."


   NEW YORK--In one of the largest marketing coups in recent years,
   holiday cheer--the intangible spirit of goodwill towards man, peace on
   Earth, and warmth in the hearts of all--will now be sponsored by the
   Toyota Motor Corporation, sources reported Tuesday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Holiday Cheer 

   One of 100 million greeting cards Toyota is sending out to the
   American public this Christmas season.

   The exclusive $30 million deal, which includes promotional tie-ins
   with the season's first snowfall and the smell of roasted turkey
   wafting gently through a warm and cozy home, was signed earlier this
   week by Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A. executive vice president James
   Lentz.

   "We are very excited to be working with holiday cheer," said Lentz,
   who called the look of wonder on a young child's face and the
   company's new line of durable trucks a "natural pairing." "From now
   on, whenever anyone curls up in front of a crackling fireplace, or
   takes a moment to reflect on the importance of family, Toyota will be
   there."

   Added Lentz: "This truly is the most wonderful time of the year."

   While many details of the deal are still unclear, Lentz said that the
   automotive company has been awarded endorsement rights to all
   affection and joy experienced during the month of December. Toyota
   will also be the chief sponsor of numerous holiday-related events,
   such as the untangling of Christmas lights while listening to Bing
   Crosby sing old seasonal classics, and the making or consuming of
   eggnog.

   Additionally, as is specified in the terms of the agreement, all sugar
   plum fairies will now be preceded by a 15-second Toyota ad before
   dancing inside consumers' heads.

   "Landing holiday cheer was huge for us," said Toyota marketing
   executive Rebecca Greer, moments after announcing that the 2008
   Corolla would be the official car of sitting down with loved ones and
   reminiscing about years past. "We got trapped in a bidding war with
   General Motors over the sound of carolers beneath an open window, but
   it was worth it in the end."

   "After all, yuletide spirit is everywhere you look," Greer added. "Or,
   I should say, 'Toyota Presents: Yuletide Spirit' is everywhere you
   look."

   Toyota's marketing campaign has reportedly increased sales figures by
   3 percent in the last week alone, and investors are hopeful that the
   deal will continue to spread the holiday message of generosity,
   compassion for others, superior handling on all luxury 4Runners, good
   tidings, antilock brakes on every SUV and year-end truck, and faith in
   your fellow man.

   "We've enjoyed a steady increase in revenue since becoming a proud
   supporter of warming up with a hot cup of cocoa," Toyota promotions
   director Kyle Williamson said. "Plus, sponsoring that priceless smile
   on your wife's face Christmas morning will only open more potential
   growth markets to us."

   Toyota is not the first company to make a cross-promotional deal with
   a popular indefinable entity, however. In 2002, Johnson & Johnson
   secured a partnership with a mother's unconditional love for her
   child, while Budweiser paired up with a teenager' s desire to escape
   feelings of social anxiety and confusion in 2005.

   Despite Toyota's initial success, many market analysts claim that the
   car company may have overpaid for its abstract product placement.

   "This might have been a smart move in the 1950s, or even the '60s,
   when holiday cheer was still alive and well," Car & Driver reporter
   and family black sheep Malcolm Jones said. "But these days, Toyota
   could have gotten twice the exposure for half the cost had it
   sponsored holiday depression and ill will instead. And if they had
   been willing to buy out Lean Cuisine frozen meals' stake in post-New
   Year's resignation and apathy, the ad tie-ins could have extended well
   into January."

   While only time will tell what effect the marketing subterfuge will
   ultimately have on consumers, Toyota's tactics have already angered a
   number of Americans.

   "The holidays shouldn't be about consumerism--they should be about
   faith, and hope, and the simple pleasures in life," Chicago resident
   Samantha Bryant said. "Like the all-new Toyota Camry, for instance."

   Brady Quinn

   CLEVELAND--Establishing a reputation for quarterback performance that
   football insiders have called "reasonable," Browns quarterback Brady
   Quinn silenced his critics and stunned his coaches, teammates, and
   family by performing competently enough in his limited play during
   preseason games to put the Cleveland Browns in 2007 post-preseason
   contention.

   "I guess I can only say 'Wow,'" former Miami Dolphins quarterback and
   current Inside The NFL co-host Dan Marino said Tuesday following the
   announcement that Cleveland would advance to the regular season,
   playing the Pittsburgh Steelers in their first game on Sept. 9. "Wow.
   I think I speak for everyone when I say no one thought Brady Quinn
   could do it. To see him come into that preseason game against the
   Lions and just embarrass one of the best auto mechanics to ever play
   cornerback in the NFL...I admit it, I didn't think he had it in him."

   "Quinn seemed possessed, like he was out there playing like it was the
   last game those other guys would ever play," added Marino, saying
   Quinn reminded him of a younger version of a quarterback who used to
   back him up.

   In his first-ever preseason start against the Detroit Lions, Quinn
   defied the extremely low expectations when he did not run out onto the
   field with his helmet on backwards, trip over the yard lines, line up
   to take the snap behind a wideout, or attempt to roll the ball down
   the field towards his receivers.

   "I couldn't believe what I was seeing," said Sports Illustrated
   football writer Peter King. "The conventional wisdom going into that
   game was that Brady Quinn was a huge mistake on the part of the
   Browns. But anyone who saw him will tell you he might not be all that
   big of a mistake after all."

   This breathtaking display of basic knowledge of football fundamentals
   continued in a workmanlike display of quarterbacking against a group
   of men attempting to make the Lions, as Quinn threw for 81 yards while
   not falling into any random holes or stepping on any rakes that had
   been left lying around the field. And in the final game of the
   preseason, facing a Bears defense that almost certainly contained
   players who will make Chicago's taxi squad, Quinn threw only a single
   interception while conspicuously not lighting himself or his teammates
   on fire or tying his shoelaces together even once.

   Predictably, Browns fans were ecstatic at the level of Quinn's
   performance.

   "Mark my words, Brady is going to be one of our quarterbacks of the
   immediate future," said Ken Fairfield, a Browns preseason-ticket
   holder who said he would be camping out for regular-season Browns
   tickets long before they went on sale, if not for the fact they would
   almost certainly be readily available. "I can't believe people said he
   wouldn't even be an adequate field general. If what I saw in the
   second halves of those games wasn't adequate, I don't know what is."

   "I'm completely surprised...I always felt that we could count on Quinn
   to totally blow it, but this is whole different side that we could
   never imagine," Browns head coach Romeo Crennel said. "I anticipated
   that he would hand off the ball to the first defensive lineman he saw.
   I even game-planned for it, keeping a fullback deep in the backfield
   to tackle him if he started running the wrong way.  But then he goes
   and throws a basic little dump-off pass to Cribbs in the flat and it
   turns into a touchdown."

   "I'm not saying we wouldn't have made it to the regular season without
   him," said Crennel, "but his play certainly didn't hurt. Which is one
   hell of a nice surprise, let me tell you."

   Charlie Frye has been confirmed as the starter for the Sept. 9 game.
   Quinn is currently fourth on the depth chart, behind Frye, Derek
   Anderson, and strong-armed long-snapper Ryan Pontbriand.


   LOS ANGELES--With Hollywood starlets facing new troubles this
   year--Paris Hilton and Nicole Richie serving jail time, Lindsay Lohan
   entering rehab, and Britney Spears losing custody of her children due
   to substance abuse and reckless behavior--former Grace Under Fire star
   and pill-popping, chain-smoking, twice-divorced drunk driver Brett
   Butler has become America's de facto sweetheart.
   [4]Enlarge Image Brett Butler 

   Butler, a relative pillar of normalcy.

   "Not once in 2007 was Brett Butler arrested, seen exposing her
   genitals in public, or featured drunk and high on the cover of a
   tabloid magazine," celebrity insider Dianne Newton said. "In fact,
   Brett Butler has not been photographed at all since 1999."

   "Thank you, Ms. Butler," Newton added. "Finally, there is someone whom
   young girls can truly look up to as a role model."

   Though Butler has had her share of problems in the past, her
   publicist, Cindy Brenneman, proudly noted that Butler has been sober
   for three years, no longer abuses sleeping pills, and rarely leaves
   her house.

   "Brett is doing relatively great," Brenneman said. "She has shown
   incredible class and integrity recently by not getting wildly
   intoxicated and climbing behind the wheel of a car without a license,
   abusing narcotics to the point that she is putting her own children's
   lives in danger, sobbing uncontrollably on live television about a
   puppy, or killing a man in cold blood, like Home Improvement's
   Patricia Richardson did in July."

   Despite her current state, however, experts predict that the exposure
   Butler will receive from being thrust once again into the national
   spotlight will likely send her spiraling into a drug-fueled depression
   and will be capped by a fatal overdose of painkillers in her Miami
   hotel room early next year.


   GREEN BAY--Three-time MVP and undisputed future Hall of Fame
   quarterback Brett Favre, disappointed with the Packers' refusal to
   aggressively pursue receiver Randy Moss and frustrated with his team's
   apparent indifference to making immediate improvements on offense, is
   demanding a trade to the team he feels will give him the best shot at
   winning a last Super Bowl ring before his retirement: the 1996 Green
   Bay Packers.
   [4]Enlarge Image Brett Favre 

   "I just don't think this Packer team, and GM Ted Thompson especially,
   is thinking in terms of winning with me," said Favre, speaking to
   reporters at his charity golf tournament in Mississippi Sunday. "On
   the other hand, 1996 Packers GM Ron Wolf is committed to building the
   team completely around me. I don't think it's out of the question to
   say that with me behind center, the 1996 Packers are looking at going
   all the way to the Super Bowl."

   Early reports had indicated that Favre was so upset that his team
   failed to close a draft-day deal for Randy Moss with the Oakland
   Raiders that his agent called Packers GM Ted Thompson and requested a
   trade to a team with capable receivers.

   "Nothing against Donald [Driver] and Greg [Jennings], but if I can't
   throw it to Randy Moss, then I want to throw it to Antonio Freeman,
   Robert Brooks, and Don Beebe," Favre said. "I bet with them, I'd have
   more of a chance of throwing for, say, 3,899 yards and 39 touchdowns,
   with maybe as few as 13 interceptions. Who knows? That kind of
   production could even get me another MVP award, although of course
   that's much less important than leading the '96 Pack to another Super
   Bowl victory."

   Favre also noted that, unlike the young and unproven 2007 Packers, the
   1996 Packers boasted seasoned veterans on both sides of the ball.

   "It sure would be great to play alongside Reggie White again--I get
   chills just thinking about seeing him in the locker room," Favre said.
   "That whole '96 defense is great, too. Santana Dotson is a force in
   the middle. That LeRoy Butler, I tell you, he's one of the most
   underrated safeties in the game. Desmond Howard isn't a bad kick
   returner, either. And unlike the Packer backfield I got now, the '96
   Packers still feature William Henderson at fullback."

   "Mark Chmura, though, I don't know," Favre admitted. "Decent tight
   end, but something about him isn't quite right."

   In addition to the more elite personnel, Favre praised the aggressive
   attitude of the coaching squad and front office of the Packers of
   1996, saying he was a fan of head coach Mike Holmgren's West Coast
   offense and Wolf's aggressive recruiting strategies.

   "I think Holmgren and I would make an interesting team," Favre said.
   "He could teach me a lot. We could learn from each other. And I know
   Ron Wolf would have my back. If, say, our number-one receiver gets
   knocked out for the season in Week 7, I believe Wolf would go right
   after a great veteran free agent, like maybe Andre Rison, to give us
   an edge in the playoffs. I can almost guarantee that."

   "It would really be something," Favre said. "We'd be one of the
   all-time great teams, a once-in-a-lifetime thing, you know? I'm going
   to have my agent look into it right away."

   Although the Packers had no immediate comment, head coach Mike
   McCarthy said the team would be "heartbroken" to part with its
   greatest player, although in deference to Favre's long service, and
   for the good of the current team, they would be willing to consider a
   trade package including a first-round pick in the 2008 NFL draft and
   the 1996 Brett Favre.


   WASHINGTON--The Senate Judiciary Committee announced Monday that,
   after five days of intense questioning, internal debate, and outside
   testimony, it is no closer to confirming Dr. Richard J. Applebaum,
   President George W. Bush's controversial nominee to be the 73rd
   presidential dentist in U.S. history.
   [4]Enlarge Image Bush's New Dentist 

   Applebaum--a Howard University College of Dentistry graduate, owner of
   the private practice Gentle Dental, and close friend of the Bush
   family--faced a seemingly unending battery of questions during the
   first week of his confirmation hearing, with the committee's 19
   members grilling him on issues ranging from tooth decay to tartar
   control to the divisive "brushing side-to-side or up-and-down"
   question.

   According to committee chairman Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-VT), however,
   the most important matter is restoring honor and dignity to the
   dentist's office.

   "We cannot stand by and allow the Republicans to rubber-stamp another
   dentist," Leahy said on NBC's Meet The Press Sunday. "We need someone
   with integrity. Someone who will not ignore untreated abscesses in the
   posterior region of the mouth. Someone who will not simply be told
   that Mr. Bush flosses daily and blindly accept that as fact. Someone
   who is tough on plaque, yet gentle around the gums."

   Applebaum's testimony thus far indicates that he has always been a
   vocal proponent of mercury amalgam fillings, which does not sit well
   with some of the Democrats in the Senate. He has, however, earned
   bipartisan approval for his policy on latex gloves. In addition, he
   has shown a commitment to featuring a wide selection of toothpaste
   flavors--including pina colada--and, with the exception of two
   occasions in the summer of 1992, has consistently consulted patients
   beforehand as to their favorite flavor.

   His stance on fluoride treatment is unknown.

   Although Applebaum's testimony has revealed a philosophy largely in
   line with current dental thought, his record is not unblemished. An
   FBI investigation launched shortly after his nomination revealed
   conflicting viewpoints on the issue of brushing.

   "Dr. Applebaum, according to our records, in March of 1999, you told a
   patient by the name of Bev Kaplansky that it was advisable to brush
   twice a day. Yet just two years later, in February of 2001, you told
   one Mr. Grayson Peters that brushing should occur after every meal," a
   transcript of Sen. Dick Durbin's (D-IL) questioning read in part.
   "Well, which is it, Dr. Applebaum? Two times a day, or after every
   meal?"

   Applebaum's refusal to answer Sen. Durbin's question has led many
   Democrats and some Republicans to declare that they will not support
   his confirmation, claiming that they do not want "another Dr.
   Cesario."

   Dr. Samuel Cesario, Bush's previous dentist, served for a tumultuous
   two years before resigning in October amid accusations that he
   politicized the position by handing out free toothbrushes and floss
   dispensers to the president, that he was pro-gingivitis, and that he
   ordered the illegal torture of several U.S.-held detainees.

   While most agree that Applebaum represents a significant upgrade from
   Cesario, Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA) was disappointed that Bush did not
   select the senator's own dentist, Dr. Harry Gellert, whom Specter has
   long championed as "a very nice man."

   The media, meanwhile, has often portrayed Applebaum as a beneficiary
   of nepotism, as both his father and grandfather worked in the dental
   profession. Some critics have been even harsher. In a recent segment
   that has been highly circulated on the Internet and within the
   political blogosphere, MSNBC's Keith Olbermann called Applebaum, 52, a
   "spineless hypocrite who is being called on not to clean teeth, but to
   obsequiously kowtow to the Bush administration."

   "In a 1987 checkup with a young child who shall remain nameless, you
   purportedly discouraged the consumption of so-called 'sweets,' but
   just moments later, sir, you rewarded that same child with a lollipop
   from the office treasure chest," Olbermann said during a "special
   comment" addressed to Applebaum on the program Countdown. "Are we to
   believe that you do not classify lollipops as 'sweets,' sir? And more
   importantly: Is this really the man we want scraping the gums of the
   leader of the free world?"

   Though Bush, who is said to be suffering from a severe toothache, has
   urged a swift confirmation and even threatened to name Applebaum as a
   recess appointment, there is speculation that the Democrats may
   attempt to filibuster the nomination, as they did to 1968 chief
   justice appointee Abe Fortas and 2003 White House plumber nominee
   Dave.


   WASHINGTON--In an unexpected reversal that environmentalists and
   scientists worldwide are calling groundbreaking, President George W.
   Bush, for the first time in his political career, openly admitted to
   the existence of carbon dioxide following the release of the new U.N.
   Global Environment Outlook this October.
   [4]Enlarge Image Bush Acknowledges 

   The announcement has wide-ranging implications for exhalation, club
   soda, and photosynthesis.

   "Carbon dioxide, a molecule which contains one atom of carbon bonded
   with two atoms of oxygen, is a naturally occurring colorless gas
   exhaled by humans and metabolized, in turn, by plants," Bush told a
   stunned White House press corps. "As a leading industrialized nation,
   we can no longer afford to ignore the growing consensus of so many
   experts whose job it is to study our atmosphere. Carbon dioxide is
   real."

   Because carbon dioxide, which was first described by 17th-century
   Flemish physician Jan Baptista van Helmont as a gas he referred to as
   "spiritus silvestre," has long been denied by the Bush administration,
   the president's speech was widely hailed as a victory for advocates of
   empirically established scientific fact.

   "This has been a major step forward for national basic-chemistry
   policy," said longtime CO2 proponent and eighth-grade science teacher
   Linda Mattson. "By taking this brave stance, Bush has opened the door
   for the eventual acknowledgment that other molecular compounds, such
   as H20, for example, may in fact exist as well."

   Many of those whom Bush has long considered to be his most loyal
   followers, however, have expressed disappointment with the
   development.

   "There is nothing about any 'carbon dioxide' in the Bible," said Rev.
   Luke Hatfield of Christchurch Ministries in Topeka, KS. "What's next?
   Claims that so-called 'fossil' fuels come from mythical creatures like
   dinosaurs? This has been a sad step backward for our nation."

   A White House spokesman was careful to categorize the announcement as
   "cautious," and reiterated that the president is still not ready to
   take any position on the existence of polar ice caps, ozone, or a
   controversial idea held by many scientists and often referred to as
   "weather."


   WASHINGTON--As his last term in office winds to a close, President
   Bush has directed White House aids and Cabinet staff to begin
   preparing for 2008, the nation's 232nd and final year in existence.

   "My fellow Americans, it has been an honor to be your last president,"
   said Bush during a televised address Tuesday, assuring citizens he
   would do everything possible over the next few months to promote a
   smooth transition into utter oblivion. "I want you all to know that I
   do not intend to let what precious little time we have left go to
   waste. That's why I ask all citizens to pull together and follow me,
   so we can accomplish everything we've ever wanted to before it all
   crumbles around us in a terrible belch of smoke and ash."

   Added Bush, "It's now or never, people. No regrets."

   As part of his ambitious 11-and-a-half-month plan, Bush has
   prioritized winning the War on Terror in order to secure Iraq's
   stability in a world where the U.S. is nothing more than a fleeting
   memory. Additionally, he has urged Congress to block upcoming
   stem-cell legislation "just in case," and has set aside the months of
   April and May to get in touch with all countries the U.S. has wronged
   in the past and apologize, and default on America's $9.16 trillion
   dollar international debt with a wild spending spree, respectively.
   [4]Enlarge Image Bush Begins Preparations For Nation's Final Year 

   A special executive committee has also been formed to draft the
   country's final words.

   In response to critics who claim Bush is a lame duck and plans to pass
   the responsibility of helplessly watching the collapse of society onto
   the next president, Bush said he is "still the commander in chief,"
   and remains dedicated to solidifying America's legacy before the
   darkness takes hold.

   "I am committed to making this the best damn Swan Song the world has
   ever seen," said Bush, after enclosing a copy of the Constitution and
   a recipe for corn dogs in an air-tight titanium capsule to be placed
   just across the Canadian border. "I know this looks like the end--and
   it is--but I intend to go out with a bang. Now, who's with me?"

   The president held a special America Wrap-Up press conference with
   members of the international press earlier today, where he spoke
   frankly with reporters and gave out long, heartfelt hugs. Bush also
   took time from his hectic schedule of staring blankly into the gaping
   maw of absolute dissolution to reflect on the country's past and look
   forward to its 281-day future.

   "Our great nation will be a shining, then blinking, then slowly fading
   beacon to the world," Bush said. "As our time as a sovereign country
   with borders and currency comes to a close, let us hope we will be
   remembered for all the great things we accomplished, and not for the
   1960s."

   "We sure did have some good times, didn't we?" Bush added.

   To help the members of Congress pass the time until both houses are a
   jagged shell of concrete and marble, looted of valuables by roving
   bands of nomadic warlords to sell for spears and kerosene, Bush
   submitted to the Senate a short list of what he called "Dream
   Projects" to be carried out in the tenuous weeks following Dec. 9,
   2008. The nation's last acts include approving one final
   all-encompassing tax break, launching a nationwide skydiving
   initiative, reducing carbon emissions by 1 percent over the next
   decade, and writing his memoirs.

   Members of the Bush Administration have consulted with top officials
   from the CIA, the FBI, NASA, the USDA, the Centers for Disease
   Control, noted scholars on the myth of Narcissus, a Chernobyl
   survivor, and the International Atomic Energy Agency to determine if
   the U.S. will indeed have time to carry out its final wishes. Bush,
   however, has instructed all Americans "not to get [their] hopes up."

   The Democrats, who will hold a majority in the House and Senate until
   the rule of law is supplanted by an especially savage series of blood
   feuds, have promised to work with the president for whatever it's
   worth.

   "None of that matters now, don't you see?" Speaker of the House Nancy
   Pelosi said. "What will it matter how many Kyoto Protocols we didn't
   sign or whether we're going to invade Iran in March? Have any of you
   ever seen a sunset--I mean really seen it?"

   While Congress continues to assist the president as we hurdle toward
   what is known in Norse mythology as Ragnark or "Doom of the Gods,"
   some have expressed anger at Washington's perceived unwillingness to
   take action in the face of the coming wall of fire.

   "Are we just going to sit back and wait for January?" said Chelsea
   Furlong, a Tennessee resident and uninsured mother of three. "That's
   going to take forever. My branch is closing next month--can't we just
   get it over with then?"


   WASHINGTON, DC--In an unexpected move that shocked White House staff
   and stunned the nation, President George W. Bush arrived unannounced
   at the Oval Office Monday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Bush 

   President Bush exits Marine One at the start of his four-hour visit to
   Washington's White House.

   Bush, who flew in from his home in Texas, was greeted by security
   forces upon landing outside the White House, and quickly escorted
   through the building's back entrance. Wearing a special suit-and-tie
   uniform intended to boost morale and show support for men and women
   serving in the Beltway, Bush entered the East Room at about 3:30 p.m.
   and addressed a bewildered but enthusiastic crowd of staff members.

   "Am I late?" Bush joked to the group of approximately 200, who were
   led to believe they would be attending a ceremony to honor Secretary
   of Transportation Mary Peters. Bush's entrance received a standing
   ovation.

   "It is incredible to see firsthand what you brave men and women do
   every day," Bush said to rousing applause. "You are all heroes."

   Telling the group he wished he had the time to work alongside each and
   every one of them, Bush made general inquiries about conditions at the
   executive mansion, recruitment of new personnel, and where everyone
   was eating for lunch.

   According to sources close to the president, Bush barely had time to
   rest during the four-hour visit. He first met face-to-face with
   several high-ranking U.S. officials, who briefed him on the situation
   in Washington. Bush then signed a number of documents, took a guided
   tour of the facilities, and in a symbolic show of support for the
   current administration, shook hands with the vice president.
   [5]Enlarge Image Bush 

   Bush poses with a White House official during his brief stopover.

   Bush was also granted permission to sit in on an important Cabinet
   meeting concerning U.S. counterterrorism efforts. Those who were
   present said the president mostly observed, but noted that he did ask
   "a lot" of questions. Afterward, Bush sat behind the Oval Office desk
   and shuffled papers for 15 minutes while news photographers snapped
   photographs.

   For most members of the White House staff, it was their first chance
   to meet the president. Many said they were "overcome" with excitement.

   "When I was getting ready for work this morning, the last person I
   ever thought I'd see was the president of the United States," said
   Alexander Mistri, special assistant to the president for legislative
   affairs.

   "I actually got to shake hands with the president," Secretary of Labor
   Elaine Chao said. "He seems like a very nice man in person."

   While Bush made surprise trips to work in August 2004 and stopped by
   in July 2005 to pick up a paycheck, Monday's visit marked his first
   extended stay since last December.

   For security reasons, the trip was shrouded in secrecy. Sources say
   the president was ushered out of his Crawford, TX home just before
   noon Monday, while his family and closest friends were under the
   assumption that he was sleeping in, per normal vacation protocol. Only
   a few officials were informed of the trip, including his chief of
   staff Joshua Bolten, Defense Secretary Robert Gates, and Bush's
   fishing buddy Dale.

   Many claim the trip was staged as a "media ploy" intended to convince
   the public that the administration's occupation of Washington, D.C. is
   not a lost cause.

   "President Bush wants us to believe that he is in touch with the Bush
   administration," political analyst Garry Wills said. "But this is too
   little, too late. Mr. Bush has staked his legacy on the success of the
   work being done in the White House, but if I were him, I'd be thinking
   more about an exit strategy than rallying the grunts on the ground."

   Despite such criticisms, Bush's visit ended on a positive note. At
   4:55 p.m. Monday, he gave a parting speech to staff, thanking them for
   their hard work, explaining that the future of the country rests in
   their hands, and promising that they would all be sent home to their
   families "very soon."


   WASHINGTON, DC--Departing from his usual hopeful rhetoric during a
   question-and-answer session with reporters in the White House Rose
   Garden, President Bush suggested Tuesday that the war in Iraq has not
   been successful because the nation's armed forces are "just not very
   good."
   [4]Enlarge Image Bush 

   Bush muses candidly about his new idea with the White House press
   corps.

   "When the decision was made to liberate Iraq, I was going on what my
   advisers were telling me and what everyone has said for nearly a
   century--that the U.S. military is the best in the world," Bush said.
   "But if that were the case, and we did have the most powerful army,
   navy, marines, and air force on the globe, we would be winning,
   right?"

   The president admitted that he'd been toying with the idea that a
   thorough lack of quality in personnel, from the top U.S. commander to
   the lowest-ranked private, is the only way to account for the colossal
   failure in Iraq, given that everything on the administrative side of
   the war has been carried out with the utmost care and precision.

   "I know the folks on our end didn't drop the ball," Bush said. "The
   civilian oversight of this war and the plan of attack has been
   brilliant. There's no doubt about that in my mind. Hate to say it, but
   maybe our men and women in uniform just aren't what they're cracked up
   to be."

   Bush conjectured that U.S. servicemen and women thrust into the
   horrifying chaos and violence of Iraq's Sunni Triangle may simply lack
   the proper perspective and cool detachment needed to implement an
   effective strategy against the insurgency. The commander in chief also
   wondered aloud why, for all their vaunted competence, American forces
   become disillusioned while fighting "for such a just and noble cause."
   [5]Enlarge Image Bush 

   Bush lamented the fact that the U.S. is "losing a lot of vehicles and
   equipment" in the ongoing conflict.

   "I know I should support the troops, especially in a time of war, but
   if they can't handle the pressure, maybe they don't deserve my
   support," Bush said. "They're making me look bad."

   "On the occasions I've met our troops, most of them didn't seem like
   they had much going for them," Bush added. "I don't think very many
   went to college or anything."

   Bush said that in the past year he has had much occasion to think
   about the U.S. military's role in history, which, he recently was
   forced to conclude, is "overrated." He traced the roots of the
   misperception back to the nation's victory in World War II.

   "We haven't really flat-out won a war since then, and you have to
   admit even that one was pretty close," the president said.

   Continued Bush: "We pretty much have a 3-4 record in terms of
   important wars, and that's being generous, because I'm counting the
   Civil War as a victory. We got absolutely killed in Vietnam, which was
   another war where the leadership at home did a fine job, only to be
   let down by the troops. Not quite sure what happened in Korea. And I
   thought we won the first Gulf War, but apparently we didn't, because
   we're still there."

   Shortly after the press conference, the White House announced that an
   advisory panel comprised of former officials from both Bush
   administrations and of private military contractors would be formed to
   devise effective solutions to problem areas in the nation's defense,
   namely the quality of the soldiers. Some of the likely recommendations
   include toughening recruitment standards so that not just anyone can
   enlist, and offering swift advancement opportunities for troops who
   show less dependence on the support current forces seem to constantly
   require from the American people. The panel is also expected to
   recommend that the nation enter into additional costly overseas
   conflicts as a way for the military to hone its combat skills.

   Yet even the most optimistic administration estimates acknowledge that
   these transformations are years, if not decades away from being
   implemented. Meanwhile, Bush still appears determined to maintain the
   American military presence in Iraq, telling reporters that the only
   way to improve the armed forces isn't to quit, but to "keep plugging
   away and hope they'll get better at this war business before they all
   get killed."


   AUSTIN, TX, OR NASHVILLE, TN-In one of the narrowest presidential
   votes in U.S. history, either George W. Bush or Al Gore was elected
   the 43rd president of the United States Tuesday, proclaiming the win
   "a victory for the American people and the dawn of a bold new era in
   this great nation."

   [4]Enlarge Image Bush Or Gore 

   Bush and Gore, one of whom called the election "a victory for
   America."

   "My fellow Americans," a triumphant Bush or Gore told throngs of
   jubilant, flag-waving supporters at his campaign headquarters,
   "tonight, we as a nation stand on the brink of many exciting new
   challenges. And I stand here before you to say that I am ready to meet
   those challenges."

   "The people have spoken," Bush or Gore continued, "and with their vote
   they have sent the message, loud and clear, that we are the true party
   of the people."

   With these words, the crowd of Republicans or Democrats erupted.

   Bush or Gore attributed his victory to his commitment to the issues
   that matter to ordinary, hardworking Americans. Throughout the
   campaign, the Republican or Democrat spoke out in favor of improving
   educational standards, protecting the environment, reducing crime,
   strengthening the military, cutting taxes, and reforming Social
   Security. He also took a strong pro-middle-class stand, praising
   America's working families as "the backbone of this great nation."

   "During this campaign, I had the good fortune to meet so many of you.
   And I listened to your concerns," Bush or Gore said. "And do you know
   what I found? That your concerns are the same as mine. Like
   64-year-old Rosemary Cullums of Wheeling, WV. She said to me, '[Mr.
   Bush or Mr. Gore], we need to restore a sense of values and decency to
   this country. I have three young grandchildren, and I worry about the
   filth they're exposed to on a daily basis from TV and the movies. We
   need Hollywood to take responsibility for its actions and stop
   peddling sex and violence to our young people.' I told Rosemary I
   agreed wholeheartedly and gave her my word that when I became
   president, I would demand accountability on the part of the
   entertainment industry. Would my [Democratic or Republican] opponent
   have said the same?"

   "The greatest thing a president can do is set an example for the
   people," Bush or Gore continued. "And as a devoted family man with a
   wonderful wife and [two or four] wonderful children, I promise to make
   the White House a place Americans can feel good about."

   The crowd erupted again, with thousands of delirious Republicans or
   Democrats waving signs reading, "America's Families For [Bush or
   Gore]" as a blizzard of red, white, and blue confetti fell from the
   ceiling.

   During his 30-minute victory speech, the president-elect also praised
   his campaign manager, Joe Allbaugh or Donna Brazile, for refusing to
   resort to the "negative smear tactics of my opponent."

   "Unlike my [Democratic or Republican] counterpart, my staff and I
   insisted that this election be about the issues," Bush or Gore said.
   "We refused to take the low road and stoop to dirty tricks in order to
   get elected. While [Mr. Gore or Mr. Bush] was busy with cheap innuendo
   and unfounded accusations, we were out there taking our message to the
   American people. And, judging from what happened today at the ballot
   box, you heard that message loud and clear. And I thank you."

   More confetti rained down from the ceiling, this time accompanied by
   balloons.

   Waving to acknowledge his supporters, the Ivy League graduate and
   scion of a political dynasty called for "a time of renewal and rebirth
   in America."

   "America has always been the land of promise and possibility," Bush or
   Gore said. "And never has that been more true than today. The
   opportunities that stand before us are great. The challenges are many.
   But I am energized by what lies ahead. Make no mistake, there is much
   work to be done. But we are more than up to the task. Remember that I
   am here to work for you, the people. Because you are the people who
   put me here. This is a fresh start. Our children are the future.
   America is ready for change. And new ideas. And a fresh start."


   CHULA VISTA, CA-Republican presidential candidate George W. Bush
   extended a hand of friendship to the nation's Hispanic community
   Monday, leaving a larger-than-customary tip for waiter Ramon Gonzalez
   after eating at La Galleria, a trendy Chula Vista bistro.

   [4]Enlarge Image Bush Reaches Out 

   Bush speaks during a campaign stop in Chula Vista, CA, where he
   courted Hispanics with a $20 tip.

   Bush-who was lunching with aide de camp Warren Hewitt and campaign
   contributor Kenneth Boehm, CEO of telecommunications giant Pacific
   Bell-left a $20 gratuity on a bill of $83.42. Working out to
   approximately 24 percent, it is the largest tip the Hispanic community
   has ever received from a Republican presidential candidate.

   Gonzalez, accepting Bush's generous overture on behalf of his people,
   thanked the candidate politely as he left the restaurant and invited
   him to visit again. Gonzalez said he intends to share the gift with
   other members of the Hispanic community, employing the standard
   food-service-industry split among waiter, busboy, and dishwasher.

   "This generous tip is my way of saying thank you to the Latino
   community for its distinguished service during the course of this
   lunch," Bush said. "It is my way of acknowledging the many valuable
   things America's Hispanics bring to the table-from appetizers to
   drinks to main courses-which are vital to the smooth progress of our
   nation's meals."

   Republican insiders are praising the gesture, noting that Bush has
   sent "a message of appreciation to a too-often-overlooked ethnic
   group."

     Bush Reaches Out jump1

   The overture to the Latino community.

   "By leaving a twenty on the table for this Mexican boy, Bush is
   telling Hispanics, 'I understand how hard your people have worked over
   the years to keep our water glasses full,'" GOP strategist Allen White
   said. "At the same time, by making this offering in tip form, he
   reinforces his campaign slogan of 'Prosperity With Purpose.' In other
   words, he sends the strong message that continued good service on the
   part of Hispanics will be recognized and rewarded."

   Despite such praise, Bush's rivals for the Republican presidential
   nomination were quick to denounce the unusually large gratuity.

   "I have always favored an across-the-board flat tip of 15 percent,
   regardless of the waiter's race," Steve Forbes said. "Gov. Bush's tip
   of 24 percent is not only fiscally irresponsible; it smacks of
   political grandstanding."

   Fellow Republican candidate John McCain was equally troubled by the
   precedent set by the Bush tip. "If we give the Hispanics 24 percent,"
   McCain said, "then the Asians will want 24 percent, too. Then the
   blacks. Then it snowballs out of control to the point where regular
   Americans suddenly can't afford to eat anywhere with table service,
   let alone get their cars detailed or their hedges trimmed. Gov. Bush
   has opened up a real Pandora's Box here."

   Speaking to reporters at a campaign stop at a tractor factory in
   Nashua, NH, Democratic presidential candidate Al Gore also had words
   for Bush.

     Bush Reaches Out jump2

   Waiter Ramon Gonzalez

   "Mr. Bush is trying to tip too little, too late," Gore said. "For
   years, he cheated the Hispanic community, calculating his tip by
   doubling the tax, even when dining in states where the restaurant tax
   is a mere six percent. Look at the record: He consistently undertipped
   Hispanics during his tenure as governor of Texas. And now he is trying
   to make up for all of that with a single $20 bill. My fellow
   Americans, I do not believe that, in his heart of hearts, Mr. Bush
   knows how much to tip."

   Gore later added that tipping should be "colorblind," reflecting only
   the quality of service received, and noted that many Hispanics are not
   waiters.

   Bush, while declining to respond specifically to his opponents'
   remarks, said he stands by his commitment to Hispanics.

   "As the fastest-growing ethnic group in America, Hispanics will
   continue to make their presence felt in all walks of restaurant life,"
   Bush said. "Whether you see them grinning while bringing the
   enchiladas at a Mexican restaurant or quietly and politely clearing
   the table at an expensive Italian eatery, I would urge all Americans
   to follow my lead and reach out to them with a couple of extra bucks."


   ALBANY, NY--In one of the most merciful disasters in recent years, a
   Greyhound bus traveling from Rochester to Albany, NY skidded into a
   ditch Tuesday, killing a dozen deadbeat fathers and penniless addicts,
   and putting nearly 20 more hapless bastards out of their misery.
   [4]Enlarge Image 

   Four of the degenerate sacks of shit who perished in the accident.

   According to Greyhound officials, the fatal crash occurred less than
   an hour after passengers gathered their pathetic belongings and
   dragged what little hope they had left onto the despair-soaked bus.
   Emergency crews called to the scene described the remains of the
   victims as "slightly more lifeless than they were before the
   accident."

   "This is by far the saddest thing I've ever witnessed," said head
   rescue worker Charles Rabnett, referring to the sea of fast-food
   wrappers, losing lottery tickets, and scorched corpses that littered
   the crash site. "We've done our best to contact family members and
   loved ones, but so far we've only been able to reach four parole
   officers and 10 AA sponsors."

   Added Rabnett: "Dear God, what a terrible waste of my time."

   While officials are still not sure what happened aboard the
   Albany-bound bus, a number of theories have been posited, including
   icy roads, low visibility due to fog, and the likelihood that the
   driver, Ron Jenkins, fell asleep at the wheel after spending a
   restless night consumed by his failures as a husband.

   Police investigators also suspect that the cause of the accident may
   have been as simple as "these luckless bastards getting shit on by the
   world one last time."
   [5]Enlarge Image 

   Rescue workers were visibly sickened by the number of hamburger
   wrappers and soda bottles strewn about the bus.

   "Dental records have helped identify only two-thirds of the
   casualties, as the remaining 10 passengers were discovered to have
   none of their original teeth left," Albany police chief Henry Goodwin
   said. "Among those, one is believed to have been a recently disowned
   teenage mother, the other an elderly widow forced to pawn her favorite
   necklace in order to purchase a bus ticket, and what appears to be the
   hollow shells of several middle-aged men."

   No survivors were reported following the accident. In addition,
   initial surveillance of the wreckage seems to indicate that those who
   managed to pull their world-weary bodies out of the overturned bus,
   gave up on their wretched existence within minutes. According to
   paramedics, it is likely that many of the casualties had suffered
   during the crash, and, if not then, for years earlier.

   "Thank heavens nobody made it," said chief paramedic John Thurston,
   who described the "disturbing smell" at the scene as a combination of
   gasoline, body odor, Aqua Velva, and relentless disappointment. "For a
   second there, I was worried I'd actually have to interact with some of
   these people."

   In response to the relative tragedy, Greyhound has agreed to donate
   $200 worth of rolled quarters and greasy, crumpled dollar bills they
   had collected as bus fare to a local charity. The casualties of the
   crash will also be memorialized with a small commemorative plaque that
   will hang at the Albany station, between an out-of-order vending
   machine and a set of bathrooms where customers can often be heard
   weeping.

   "It's hard to believe that something like this could even happen,"
   said Albany resident Carl Robinson, who, since losing his home to a
   fire earlier this month, has been sleeping in the city's dilapidated
   bus station. "To know that life, no matter how dreadful or hopeless,
   always has a chance of coming to an end--it's so inspiring."

   As of press time, hundreds of men and women had gathered at the site
   of the fatal accident to mourn the loss of a perfectly good bus.


   DEL MAR, CA-Despite strong personal reservations, Republican
   presidential contender George W. Bush confirmed Monday that he has
   "reluctantly" agreed to accept a $2 million donation from his parents
   "to help with some of the mounting expenses involved in running for
   office."

   [4]Enlarge Image Bush Reluctantly Accepts 

   Presidential hopeful George W. Bush is flanked by his mom and dad, who
   holds a check for him.

   "I didn't want to do it, as I have always prided myself on paying my
   own way," Bush told reporters during a campaign stop near San Diego.
   "Unfortunately, the increasing difficulty of competing with the Gore
   campaign's unlimited taxpayer war chest has forced me to accept some
   limited financial support."

   According to Bush 2000 spokesman Geoff Bahnsen, Bush has agreed to a
   one-time loan in the form of a check for $2 million, to help cover
   some of his travel and grocery expenses between now and November.
   Bahnsen stressed that the candidate will pay his parents back the full
   amount, plus interest, "just as soon as he gets back on his feet
   financially."

   Bush's acceptance of money from his parents to help defray campaign
   costs is said to be a severe blow to his pride. Since announcing his
   candidacy, the Texas governor has made a point of refusing all
   financial help from his well-to-do parents and their various friends
   and business associates.

   "For a self-made man like George W. to lower himself to accepting
   money from his family must have been very hard," said Kate O'Beirne,
   Washington editor for The National Review. "Here is a man who loathes
   the notion of privilege. However, this was a case where he had to be
   man enough to admit that he needed a little help. And, luckily, his
   parents were able to spare the $2 million."

   Throughout the race, Bush has paid for all his expenses out of pocket,
   supplementing his income with various "odd jobs" while on the campaign
   trail. Such self-sufficiency and insistence on personal fiscal
   responsibility is nothing new for the presidential hopeful.

   "Bootstrap" Bush, as he was affectionately known at Yale, first gained
   notoriety for his discipline and thrift while at the Ivy League
   school, paying his own way through by working as a prep cook at a New
   Haven-area diner. Several years later, after having donated his
   six-figure trust fund to charity, Bush won a low-income scholarship to
   Harvard Business School. He refused the money, however, insisting at
   the time that "working my way through school by doing night janitorial
   work is the best way for me to build character and learn the value of
   a dollar."

   In 1989, when his father and various business associates decided that
   the young George W. might want to try his hand at running a
   major-league baseball team, the younger Bush refused outside
   assistance, working a second job at a local convenience store for an
   entire summer to save up the $137 million he needed to buy the Texas
   Rangers.

   Similarly, he has steadfastly refused his father's offers to share in
   his oil holdings over the years, opting instead to prospect new sites
   and dig the oil wells himself.

   "By showing a little old-fashioned, Texas-style gumption and hard
   work, George W. has become a major oil baron in his own right,"
   Washington Post reporter Hanna Rosin said. "Sure, it would have been
   easier for him to ride his father's coattails to success, but that's
   not his way. George W. Bush is a proud man who doesn't believe in
   exploiting the considerable advantages with which he was born."

   For his part, Bush maintained that his decision to accept money from
   his mother and father is a one-time emergency measure.

     Bush Reluctantly Accepts jump

   The donation and the card in which it arrived.

   "I didn't become governor of Texas by using my family's wealth, power,
   and connections. I did it through hard work-selling Grit door-to-door,
   holding garage and yard sales, mowing lawns in the summertime, and
   raking leaves in the fall to get the money I needed to fund my
   campaign," Bush said at a car-wash fundraiser.

   "My family raised me right, teaching me that a little elbow grease and
   some perseverance are all I need to make my dreams come true,"
   continued Bush, pausing briefly to hose the suds off a 1992 Chevy
   Lumina. "Just because Dad helped me out with an extra $2 million
   doesn't mean I'm going to be living the high life on somebody else's
   dime."

   Members of Bush's campaign staff agreed.

   "You can bet you'll see him out there on the streets tomorrow morning
   as usual, broom in hand, sweeping off storefronts for $3 apiece, just
   like he always does," said Rev. Buford H. Lee, a retired Baptist
   minister and volunteer Bush 2000 campaign manager. "That's a man who,
   even when he hardly has enough fuel in his private jet to make a
   weekend campaign stop in Ohio, still finds it in his heart to take
   what little jet fuel he does have and give half of it to the Widow
   Sanderson down the way."

   The elder Bush echoed his son's down-to-earth approach.

   "There's no shame in accepting charity if, like my son, you are truly
   in need of securing victory in a presidential election," the former
   president said. "After all, we're all human beings, and we all need
   help sometimes."

   "But charity can only go so far," Bush continued. "My daddy taught me,
   as I in turn have taught my son, to always believe in starting your
   own motor. A man's got to get out there and pound the pavement if he
   expects to earn a decent, honest living and put food on the table for
   his family. That's just the Bush way."


   ELMHURST, IL--An adjustable butterfly fuck-swing once used by Nathan
   Moscone and Sofia Klein-Moscone to have wild and uninhibited sex in
   myriad aerial positions has been slowly filling up with junk mail over
   the past several months, the couple reported Monday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Butterfly Fuck 

   At one time, the young couple considered the butterfly fuck-swing to
   be their most precious possession. In recent years, however, it has
   been eclipsed in esteem by Nathan's leather briefcase and Sofia's
   emerald earrings.

   The dozens of credit card offers, coupon flyers, and unsolicited
   catalogs were first stacked in the butterfly fuck-swing in order to
   clear off the dining table for visiting relatives, but more mail
   gradually began to accumulate on the soft vinyl seat designed to
   cushion the rapid, percussive strokes of lovemaking.

   "The wife and I sure had some crazy times on that thing before we had
   the baby," said Nathan Moscone, 37, motioning towards the adult toy,
   upon which he had just hung his suit jacket. "But it seems like
   forever since I turned her upside down in that thing and dripped hot
   wax onto her vulva. Maybe we can give it another go after we finish
   the deck. That's taking up all my spare time at the moment."

   The butterfly fuck-swing features nylon straps, padded stirrups, a
   swiveling hook, a crossbar Klein-Moscone used to grasp in the throes
   of ecstasy, and, more recently, several unread issues of O, The Oprah
   Magazine.

   Moved from the couple's bondage room, now a nursery, to the den late
   last year, the fuck-swing ended up in an ideal location to deposit
   mail deemed too unimportant for the already full rolltop desk in the
   corner. Other items, such as a box of edible lubricants and an 18-inch
   steel-studded leather paddle, were relocated to the attic to keep them
   out of the reach of the Moscones' active and inquisitive 11-month-old
   daughter, Abby.

   Klein-Moscone, 33, said that she had considered simply throwing out
   the junk mail, but balked after the last time, when she accidently
   discarded an important medical bill that had been placed in the
   butterfly fuck-swing.

   "I swear I'll get to sorting out that mail soon," said Klein-Moscone,
   who less than two years ago would strap herself into the butterfly
   fuck-swing at her husband's slightest suggestion, but now only
   interacts with the sex apparatus when rummaging through it for a Home
   Depot receipt.

   In addition to raising a baby, Moscone said that working long hours,
   volunteering at their church, and doing yard work leaves him and his
   wife very little time to read their mail and enjoy exhilarating
   sadomasochistic fucking through unconventional methods.

   "I was just thinking yesterday, Boy, I can't remember the last time I
   had my fist up my wife's asshole,"  Moscone said. "It happens to every
   marriage, I guess."

   Also noticeably absent from the couple's sexual repertoire is the
   bright purple silicone butt plug that, for the past several weeks, has
   been the favorite chew toy of their Pomeranian, Champ.

   "I'd love to give those ankle and wrist restraints another go, but for
   the life of me I can't remember where they are," said Moscone about a
   set of chained leather cuffs that are currently being used to padlock
   a composting bin in the couple's backyard. "And I haven't seen hide
   nor hair of our cock rings since we were up in Lake Geneva. We'll have
   to get some new ones, I guess."

   "Well, as soon as the family budget allows for it," he added.

   Despite being forced to retire the nipple clamps after the baby
   started nursing, the pair said they would still consider having
   exciting and adventurous sex if Klein-Moscone ever returned home from
   her advanced Pilates class with any remaining energy.

   "Last Thursday, Nathan and I wanted to take his penis prison out of
   the shed to have a little bit of fun before Dateline," said
   Klein-Moscone, referring to a rubber locking male-chastity device.
   "But, my God, was that shed a mess--we ended up just sorting junk. At
   least I found our favorite ball gag, which I'm going to hang in the
   garage so I know how far to pull the minivan in."

   Both Moscones hope to get their once-hot sex life back into gear in
   the spring, pledging to make good use of a leather hood and spreader
   bar when they try for another baby.


   BEIJING--In an attempt to assure the world's children that the
   millions of Chinese-made toys currently being recalled for containing
   toxic lead paint and tiny choking hazards can no longer hurt them,
   high-level Chinese officials announced Tuesday that millions of
   playthings are being rounded up and immediately put to death.
   [4]Enlarge Image Chinese Authorities 

   Suspected lead- paint-tainted Barbie dolls face firing squads in
   China.

   "We are committed to the well-being of children and putting the
   consumer's mind at ease," said Chinese president Hu Jintao at a press
   conference. "Boys and girls of the world, you need not worry. Your
   toys will be executed swiftly and harshly. When we are through, there
   will be nothing left to play with."

   In the past six weeks, Mattel Inc. has recalled more than 20 million
   toys from China that are believed to contain lead paint and other
   safety defects, a situation that prompted the Chinese government to
   send People's Liberation Army forces into major industrial sectors to
   mercilessly slaughter any remaining items that have not been exported
   for sale overseas. So far, an estimated 9 to 10 million toys, from
   anonymous dolls and miniature cars to trademarked characters such as
   Thomas the Tank Engine, Curious George, and Big Bird have been
   reportedly kicked, smashed with rifles, shocked with electric batons,
   hanged, and pounded with nails, before having their ears severed and
   eyes gouged out, and then being shot.

   "Believe me when I say you can sleep peacefully tonight," said Hu, who
   reportedly gave troops direct orders to force thousands upon thousands
   of Polly Pocket dolls to their knees, point assault rifles at the
   backs of their heads, and blow their toxin-filled skulls to bits. "We
   wish to reassure the world that we are taking care of this problem. We
   shall serve the young people."

   Chinese toy manufacturers are reportedly complying with the
   government's wishes. According to the Xinhua News Agency, in the past
   three days alone, factory owners roused an estimated 365,000 Barbie
   dolls from their dream homes in a violent series of raids. During
   these raids, the Barbies were separated from their Kens, were stripped
   naked, and had their heads shaved. They were then taken to an
   undisclosed area, leaned against a wall because they were incapable of
   standing under their own power, and shot by a firing squad as toy
   soldiers were forced to watch.

   "We are assisting the authorities in destroying toys," said Chen Hai,
   a senior manager at Joy Sing Industrial Plastics Co., a supplier
   contracted by several major American toy companies. "This is not all
   talk. We invite any concerned American parents to come here and tour
   our toy torture chambers to see the toys' agony for themselves."

   Chen added that, as a precaution, the factory also executed 5,000
   workers.

   A toy-abuse-monitoring group, the Association for the Advancement of
   Plastic People (AAPP), said it has gathered evidence suggesting that
   the Chinese government has also detained an additional 20 million toys
   for questioning. According to the group, even toys that contained only
   trace levels of lead paint were loaded onto trains bound for detention
   centers in remote provinces of Western China, where they were
   allegedly deprived of sleep, burned with cigarettes, and subjected to
   traditional Chinese water torture.

   The AAPP also released video smuggled from an unidentified detention
   center showing Chinese intelligence officers attempting to extract
   information on the whereabouts of suspected lead-tainted toys from a
   Little Mommy Real Loving Baby Doll, despite the fact that she was
   capable only of asking for her bottle and playing peek-a-boo. The
   gruesome footage shows the doll's eyes being forcibly taped open and
   her lack of genitals being melted with a soldering iron.

   News of the crackdown is being received favorably by parents'
   organizations in the U.S.

   "We're pleased the Chinese government is taking such an active and
   serious approach to the safety of toys," said Annelise Bow, director
   of the Brooklyn, NY---based organization Our Children Come First. "We
   hope that in the future any potential uprisings among dangerous
   playthings coming out of China will be crushed before they can spread
   to our toyboxes."

   Minister of Commerce Bo Xilai said he hoped the mass toy-purges would
   "send a strong message to our enemies who threaten to harm us with
   their dangerous chemical compounds."

   "Only by flaying Elmo's lethal skin, and wrenching Dora the Explorer's
   deadly limbs from her sockets and publicly displaying her body parts
   can we effectively warn toys never to jeopardize the livelihood of the
   people," Bo said.

   Government officials, however, still refused to confirm the
   whereabouts of Thomas the Tank Engine, rumored to have been splintered
   into pieces by attack dogs in Manchuria. Nor would it address
   allegations that hundreds of toy steam shovels in Guangdong Province
   were forced to dig their own graves before they were executed.


   DETROIT--Violent decapitations and permanent paralysis due to severing
   of the spinal cord are among the reasons cited by the Chrysler
   Corporation for its decision to recall all '97 automobiles containing
   the "neckbelts" safety feature.

   [4]Enlarge Image Chrysler Halts Production Of Neckbelts 

   Passengers in a '97 Chrysler LeBaron wear neckbelts, which were
   recalled Monday for causing explosive decapitations, launching
   victims' severed heads through windshields at upwards of 200 mph.

   "In the case of collision, it would appear that the neckbelts have a
   detrimental effect on overall passenger safety," read a statement
   released by the company Monday.

   The recall, the most expensive in Chrysler's history, goes into effect
   early next week. In the meantime, the company is advising all
   motorists who use the neck belts to maintain a defensive driving
   stance at all times, as accidents may result in "crushed trachea,
   severe spinal and/or brain damage, and, in the most severe cases,
   sudden defenestration of the head area, as the entire region above the
   neck separates from the upper body, flying at tremendous speed through
   the breakaway glass of the windshield, rolling several yards into the
   street directly in front of the car," the Chrysler press release
   stated.

   The neckbelts were developed with passenger safety in mind, say
   Chrysler spokespersons. "Our research showed that one of the biggest
   risks to motorists is the danger of passengers sustaining head
   injuries by striking the dashboard or the seat in front of them as
   their bodies are flung forward during a crash," Chrysler safety
   designer Robert McArdle said. "Our thinking was that by immobilizing
   the head and neck, this type of injury would decrease significantly."

   The belts, McArdle said, were also intended to reduce the neck stress
   associated with whiplash. "Unfortunately, it appears that we were
   erroneous in this analysis as well," he added. "Even minor
   fender-benders seem to cause motorists wearing neckbelts to have their
   entire heads forcibly ripped from their torsos, landing in the front
   seat to the shocked screams of terrified onlookers."

   Another negative side effect of the neckbelts is the psychological
   damage that may be suffered by eyewitnesses upon observing a
   convulsing, headless human body spontaneously jettison fountains of
   blood as the adrenaline-maximized heart furiously pumps quart after
   quart from the neck wound, coating the car interior, the Chrysler
   statement continued.

   Neckbelt wearers are warned that a severed human head may remain alive
   for up to two minutes before blood loss, oxygen starvation and shock
   trauma cause it to lose consciousness.

   "Brain death is something science still knows very little about," said
   Chrysler safety engineer Tom Savini, "but drivers should take note
   that law enforcement personnel have reported observing bouncing,
   rolling severed heads blinking their eyes and gasping for air as if
   attempting to speak minutes after separation from the torso on more
   than one occasion."

   Savini said that such still-alive severed human heads "probably live
   out their last moments in a state of unimaginable agony," and urged
   caution on the part of drivers who wear the neckbelt device.

   In addition to decapitation and paralysis, some consumer advocates
   have complained that the neckbelt safety devices inhibit side-to-side
   motion of the head, causing drivers to swerve wildly back and forth in
   order to maintain a clear view of the street. Other negative side
   effects cited include difficulty in breathing, eating and talking.

   In the wake of industry-wide concern about the safety of the
   neckbelts, Chrysler is also reexamining the so-called "shrapnelizing"
   explosive dashboard which became a standard safety option on all new
   models in 1995.

   "By splintering into literally thousands of rapidly spinning jagged
   fragments, which ricochet around the car's interior at tremendous
   speeds, tearing any living tissue inside to shreds in seconds, these
   dashboards may represent a significant safety risk to motorists," read
   a report submitted to CEO Robert Eaton by a Chrysler safety
   engineering team.

   Many observers are comparing the Chrysler recall to the controversy
   surrounding the 1976 Ford Pinto, the economy-model compact which, when
   rear-ended, ignited its fuel tanks and became doused in flaming
   gasoline, causing passengers to ineffectually pound on the windows and
   scream as they were burned alive at superheated temperatures within,
   before exploding as a bomb does.


   WASHINGTON--In testimony before a special panel on domestic safety
   Tuesday, officials at the Central Intelligence Agency revealed that
   the U.S. may have anywhere between one and three unidentified secret
   admirers currently longing for the country.
   [4]Enlarge Image 

   President Bush contemplates whether to take truth or dare at a special
   late-night meeting with the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

   "We face a new and disturbing reality: There are people out there who
   love us, and they're coming after us," said a blushing John Michael
   McConnell, director of national intelligence. "We currently have no
   leads as to who exactly has targeted the U.S. for its affections, but
   we can be certain our admirer's feelings are real and not going away
   anytime soon. I strongly urge all Americans to be incredibly flattered
   but cautious."

   According to McConnell, the CIA received credible heart-shaped
   intelligence taped to the door of the agency's headquarters in early
   September, alerting them to an unspecified number of nations that
   might be harboring fondness for the United States. After being held to
   the chests of high-ranking CIA officials for a classified length of
   time, the note was subjected to a battery of forensic tests, as were
   the chocolates and single red rose that accompanied it. After six days
   of examination, however, analysts were unable to find a name on the
   card's pink, glittered surface.

   President Bush was reportedly informed of the situation in excited
   whispers.

   "I assure you, the full resources of your government are being
   utilized to track down any and all persons who may have special
   feelings for our great nation," McConnell said. "If this information
   were to fall into the wrong hands, it would be absolutely
   humiliating."

   Intelligence officers were able to narrow the original field of 190
   suspects to a more manageable 47, including Egypt, the European Union,
   and Antoine Martin, a 36-year-old tennis instructor from Monte Carlo.
   The agency also stepped up surveillance on Mexico and Canada, the two
   countries the CIA considers closest to the United States.
   [5]Enlarge Image 

   A CIA-generated map highlights potential hot spots of romantic
   activity from around the globe.

   "We've always had a certain, well, tension with Russia, so we asked
   our most trusted field operatives to ask their most trusted field
   operatives if they maybe liked America, but so far the country has
   proven both uncooperative and bashful," said one unnamed CIA source,
   who confirmed that all intelligence-gathering operations in the
   Scandinavian countries were terminated after it was determined they
   were "out of [the U.S.'s] league." "Then Spain told us they had
   information as to who the admirer is, but unfortunately they have been
   sworn to secrecy."

   The unnamed source added, "With our luck, it's probably Kyrgyzstan."

   At an emergency sleepover session of Congress, lawmakers passed a $750
   million appropriations bill to strengthen law enforcement presence at
   all major U.S. ports. The measure would dispatch more than 15,000
   police officers to the nation's borders to inspect any boats
   transporting large quantities of perfume or jewelry, as well as any
   barges carrying suspiciously heartfelt poetry.

   Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi personally pledged her support in
   finding the secret admirers, offering to make multiple diplomatic
   visits to Japan to assess the country's possible involvement and
   potential interest in the upcoming Modest Mouse show.

   "Until we have more information about who we are dealing with and
   whether or not they are gross, all precautions must be taken to
   prevent a harmless crush from escalating into full-scale infatuation,"
   Pelosi said, clutching a brief compiled by aides on which she had
   drawn a heart around the words "Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda."

   Although sources at the agency report none of the top secret,
   encrypted messages passed to visiting dignitaries have been returned
   with "yes" boxes checked, they remain hopeful they will be able to
   root out all smitten parties and avoid any potentially awkward moments
   at the United Nations.

   "I've said it all along: It's Africa," McConnell said. "They're always
   asking us for aid and inviting us to world health summits. I think
   it's pretty clear that they've been wanting to get our attention for
   some time."


   BURBANK, CA--Universal Studios joined DreamWorks SKG, Sony Pictures,
   Warner Bros., Paramount, and Fox Monday, when CEO Ron Meyer announced
   that the company is shutting down operations and ceasing all film
   production, effective immediately.
   [4]Enlarge Image Citing Slow Summer Box Office, Hollywood Calls It
   Quits 

   Demolition begins on a Hollywood landmark.

   "In their hearts, every studio chair would like to be a patron of the
   arts," said a candid and reflective Meyer, speaking from his New York
   office on the 69th floor of Manhattan's Rockefeller Plaza. "But this
   is a business, not an artists' charity ward."

   According to Hollywood insiders, summer 2005 dealt the death blow to
   an already ailing industry. With box-office receipts 9 percent lower
   than those of 2004, the few successes, such as The 40-Year-Old Virgin
   and War Of The Worlds, could not carry the industry.

   Regarding the decision to liquidate Paramount, Viacom CEO Sumner
   Redstone said, "It was a simple choice: cling to an outdated business
   model or cut the pictures loose."

   To better protect their stockholders' interests, Hollywood will be
   shifting its focus to safer, more reliable profit models, including
   real estate, life insurance, and the sale of hygiene products.

   Said Meyer: "The mortuary industry also seems like a good bet. No
   matter what happens in the economy, there's always a market for
   funeral homes. People are always dying. That doesn't go unpredictably
   out of fashion with the public's taste, like, say, historical costume
   epics or Russell Crowe."

   Monday, construction crews quietly dismantled the storied Hollywood
   Walk of Fame.

   "This is a real shame," said foreman Kevin McKnight, directing members
   of his crew to pry the brass stars from Hollywood Boulevard and
   transfer them to a nearby freight crate destined for a Japanese
   smelting plant. "I love movies. My whole family does. All my life, I
   loved movies."

   With each studio's decision to cease operations, dozens of films in
   various stages of production will quietly die, some going to DVD,
   others disappearing entirely, amounting to little more than tax
   write-offs. Assets are being sold for pennies on the dollar, and
   hastily liquidated prop houses and set rooms have flooded an already
   deluged eBay resale market. An original Indiana Jones flight jacket
   was sold Tuesday for $1.49 plus shipping.

   Figures from the California Labor Department reflect the industry's
   sudden collapse. As of Tuesday, some 700 directors, 15,000 producers,
   2,900 entertainment lawyers, 14,000 writers, and 72,000 actors--not to
   mention countless gaffers, tour guides, production designers,
   publicists, souvenir sellers, and personal assistants--were reportedly
   out of work.
   [5]Enlarge Image Citing Slow Summer Box Office, Hollywood Calls It
   Quits 

   Mel Gibson begs for work on Wilshire Boulevard in Los Angeles.

   "I feel a little betrayed," said Stealth director Rob Cohen. "After
   the summer season ended, I had hoped that people would start coming
   back to theaters, or maybe the industry would cook up some new
   concepts."

   Cohen added: "Now it looks like I'll have to go back to directing TV
   ads."

   "I don't know how my family will get by without a steady source of
   income," said 43-year-old Los Angeles resident Kirk Ferguson, a
   third-generation set carpenter. "Making facades that get blown up is
   all I know."

   The absence of films is creating a ripple effect far beyond Southern
   California. Movie ushering has become an obsolete trade overnight, as
   first-run theaters shut down, convert to loft apartment space, and
   force hundreds of thousands of adolescents into the already crowded
   lawn-mowing and car-washing professions.

   "A lot of movie history was made on the Warner Bros. lot, but not a
   lot of money," Warner Bros. CEO Barry Meyer said. "We've been sitting
   on valuable land at the height of a booming real-estate market. We
   could have sold it off months ago instead of making Must Love Dogs. We
   acted irresponsibly, and for this I apologize to our stockholders."

   With little hope of getting a job in Hollywood, ex-film-industry
   employees are understandably reacting with anger and despair. Some,
   however, are more philosophical.

   "I can always go back to Wisconsin and tend bar," actor Mark Ruffalo
   said. "Maybe do some community theater. The folks you should really
   feel sorry for are Jack Nicholson and Tom Cruise. They're fucking
   nuts. I have no idea what they'll do without Hollywood."

   The void is not likely to remain for long, with heavy hitters such as
   Bollywood producer Aamir Khan ready to swoop in.

   "We are very excited to be entering the American entertainment
   market," Khan said. "Our first release, timed to coincide with the
   American holiday entertainment rush, is a remake of Mahabharata, a
   five-hour retelling of the ancient Hindu epic, filled with thrilling
   synchronized dance numbers and much romance."


   WASHINGTON, DC--In what observers are calling a "radically intense"
   move, President Clinton unveiled a new "No Fear" foreign policy
   approach Monday, stating that in the future, nations dealing with the
   U.S. should "Bring Your Spine Or Ride The Pine."

   [4]Enlarge Image Clinton Adopts New 'No Fear' Foreign Policy 

   President Clinton, sporting a new haircut and neon green Zubaz pants,
   told reporters, "There is no crying in foreign policy--shut up and
   negotiate."

   "America is, quite simply, In It To Win It," a visibly pumped Clinton
   told the assembled international press. "While this administration
   remains committed to maintaining good relations with our allies
   abroad, that's not going to stand in the way of the fact that It's Not
   Whether You Win Or Lose, It's How Bad You Beat The Other Team."

   Upon finishing his speech, Clinton vaulted over the podium and
   sprinted to the new Air Force One, a neon orange and purple Chevy Brat
   sports pickup with Tazmanian Devil mudflaps and an adhesive decal
   prominently displayed in the rear window, reading, "Clint Force
   One--All The Way With Hell To Pay." He then sped off to a D.C.-area
   shopping mall parking lot before his stunned audience could reply.

   Reports that the pickup had electric light-up neon displays around the
   license plates could not be confirmed at press time.

   "In foreign policy, Second Place Is The First Loser," the president
   said in a nationally televised speech on ESPN2 Monday night. Sporting
   wraparound multi-colored mirrored sunglasses, Clinton added, "The
   United States of America Is Agile, Mobile, Hostile, and Completely
   Fearless. No Fear!" He then grunted, striking a muscle-flexing pose
   before challenging embattled Russian President Boris Yeltsin to a
   "no-holds barred, flat-out motocross mud run," advising the Russian
   premier to "Shut Up and Hit The Dirt."

   Another aspect of the new "No Fear" policy is the requirement that all
   international treaties and other diplomatic documents be printed in
   oversized "distressed-type"-style lettering, and stored for safe
   keeping in bright green and yellow "fanny packs."

   Further, all U.S. ambassadors will be required to wear "long-in-back,
   buzzed-on-top" haircuts and attend formal diplomatic events wearing
   baggy, weightlifter-style Zubaz pants, preferably neon green or
   magenta ones, the State Department said.

   "I believe that by dressing in such an intense manner, our ambassadors
   will send a strong 'Don't Mess With The U.S.' message to foreign
   diplomats," Clinton said. "If their diplomats come dressed in B.U.M.
   Equipment gear, we will come in No Fear. If they wear Generra
   Hypercolor, we will respond with Big Johnson. The U.S. will not be
   cowed."

   Clinton added that "the United States government has Been There,
   Wrecked That."

   In addition to dress code changes, in the future, foreign policy
   strategy meetings will no longer be held at the State Department
   Building, but instead will take place at "The Quarry," an abandoned
   D.C.-area mining site where government officials convene out of the
   backs of their trucks "tailgate-style." A favorite Clinton
   administration hangout, the Quarry is where aspiring officials are
   often called upon to "prove their stuff" by diving off the uppermost
   point of "Panic Peak" into the swimming hole at the Quarry's base, an
   experience Secretary of Labor Robert Reich describes as "110 percent
   pure adrenaline overdrive, baby!"

   "At 200 mph there is no diplomatic immunity," Clinton said,
   reiterating the new American stance. "If foreign interests mess with
   the bull they can expect the horns. We have no room for crybabies in
   the emergent global economy. Bones heal, records don't. Eat my dust!"
   The president then floored it.

   Foreign reaction to the new No Fear policy has been mixed.

   Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo said, "It is of great concern to
   Mexico to suddenly be so close to a nation that is so--how do you
   say?--'balls out.' I am afraid."

   German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, on the other hand, has already
   responded with a gift to the president of an original vinyl copy of
   Boston's self-titled debut LP, originally owned by his older brother.
   The president is said to be pleased with the gesture, saying that
   Boston kicks ass.

   "Dudes, can you see it? My mustache is coming in," Clinton said in
   conclusion. "What a chick magnet that'll be."

   Confiscated Patriots

   NEW YORK--The hundreds of hours of game and practice scouting
   videotapes that league officials seized from the New England Patriots
   also include over 100 hours of painstakingly thorough footage of
   Patriots quarterback Tom Brady in the shower, sources within the NFL
   competition committee confirmed Tuesday.

   "We are still investigating whether the assembled shower footage of
   Brady soaped up and wreathed in steam--which I can personally confirm
   was in fact taken in the showers of several different NFL-affiliated
   facilities around the league, and appears to have been shot by head
   coach Belichick himself--constitutes a violation of league laws or
   policies," league spokesman Greg Aiello told reporters during a press
   conference held at the league's Manhattan offices. "It is the opinion
   of the commissioner and the league that further extensive study is
   required before any judgment can be rendered in this matter."

   "Our investigation continues to focus on any instances of cheating by
   the New England Patriots, and will continue to focus on cheating no
   matter how much Brady showering footage we find," Aiello added.

   Aiello then displayed a 25-minute composite videotape consisting of
   representative segments and "highlights" of Brady in the shower.

   Analysts agree that the bulk of the shower footage, while certainly
   unusual in many aspects, seems to have been shot with Brady's full
   knowledge and cooperation, although Brady does not appear especially
   enthusiastic. Early footage is also said to include showering
   quarterback Drew Bledsoe, then the Patriots starting quarterback, and
   at least 25 minutes of the earliest-known material was evidently shot
   in the showers at the University of Michigan as Brady was being
   scouted for the draft.

   "Belichick has always been a big believer in spending as much time as
   possible on film study," said Boston Globe football writer Bill Ryan,
   who as a regular Patriots reporter was given the opportunity to view
   outtakes from several of the Brady shower tapes, notably those labeled
   "Super Bowl XXXVI," "Camp 2002/Skeleton Drills," and "Tuck Rule"
   before being thoroughly questioned by league officials. "But I didn't
   know he'd shot so much of it himself. His intensity about it can be
   kind of frightening."

   "To hear Belichick narrating the whole thing, pointing out his
   quarterback's tendencies, identifying Brady's strong points and the
   areas where he needs work, hearing his voice as a counterpoint to the
   sound of the hot running water and seeing that familiar
   sweatshirt-clad arm cut through the mist to hand Brady his towels--you
   realize the man has a unique football mind," said Sports Illustrated
   football correspondent Paul Zimmerman. "If nothing else, the attention
   to every significant detail definitely makes an impression on the
   viewer."

   Although officials have not divulged whether other Patriots players or
   even quarterbacks from other teams were featured in their own
   showering videotapes, Aiello confirmed that the investigation was by
   no means complete and the total inventory may take weeks to assemble.

   "We confiscated thousands of these tapes from the Patriots coaching
   staff," Aiello told reporters, "and hundreds more tapes showing
   nothing but opposing teams sending in offensive and defensive signals.
   It may be some time before we have a complete catalog of what's on
   them. I can confirm, however, that we will be questioning Mr. Brady at
   length about his experiences regarding showering and video cameras,
   and communicating daily with Coach Belichick and team owner Robert
   Kraft concerning any and all videotaped footage of NFL players,
   specifically Tom Brady, in the shower. You have my word on that."

   Neither Belichick nor Brady would comment on the investigation. The
   New England Patriots organization did not respond to requests for
   information, but released a statement Wednesday morning confirming
   that the league had compensated the team and coach for $750,000 in
   exchange for the videotapes in question.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Washington police seized 22 members of the House of
   Representatives, 12 members of the Senate, and more than 100 fighting
   cocks Monday night, in the latest crackdown on blood sports at the
   highest levels of the U.S. government.

   [4]Enlarge Image 34 Congressmen Arrested In D.C. Cockfighting
   Crackdown 

   Congressmen Don Nickles (R-OK), Charles Schumer (D-NY), Dick Gephardt
   (D-MO), and John Lewis (D-GA) minutes before their arrest.

   "At 1 o'clock this morning, uniformed officers, acting on tips from
   undercover operatives, staged simultaneous raids on four known beltway
   pits, arresting a large bipartisan coalition of legislative
   cockfighting enthusiasts," D.C. police chief Charles H. Ramsey told
   reporters Tuesday. "Of course, we were aware of the longstanding
   cockfighting problem, but we were shocked to catch so many highly
   placed lawmakers in the act of betting on, training, and selling
   fighting birds--or, in the case of [Rep.] Tammy Baldwin [D-WI],
   operating back-alley clubs."

   A full report of evidence gathered in the raids will be issued later
   this week, but police have released certain facts, including details
   about a breeding network for elite fighting cocks--prized for their
   extreme aggressiveness and high pain threshold--run by members of the
   House Judiciary Committee. Undercover officers said they witnessed
   committee members selling birds to other congressmen for hundreds of
   dollars apiece.

   Evidence also included photos of congressional motor-pool limousines
   that had been converted into "crating trucks" to transport cocks from
   venue to venue. Perhaps most stunning of all were the firsthand
   sightings of cocks, their crests and wattles surgically removed, being
   trained to fight with blades tied to their natural spurs in a 400-bird
   "hardening pen" in the basement of the Old Executive Office Building,
   just blocks away from the White House.

   Detective William Gargano of the D.C. vice squad was present for the
   previous evening's raid on El Pollo Diablo, a cockfighting pit located
   among several blocks of abandoned warehouses in southeast D.C.

   "I was there shooting undercover video when detectives and
   animal-control operatives, working in a combined task force, busted
   down all the doors to the place at once," Gargano said. "It had
   already been shaping up to be one hell of a night. [Sen. Dick] Lugar
   [R-IN] was a few hundred dollars ahead in the pit. His famous Stag
   Hammer just couldn't lose. Well, that didn't sit well with [Sen.]
   Hillary Clinton [D-NY], who accused him of giving his bird ginger and
   amphetamine suppositories to make it fight harder."

   Continued Gargano: "Then [Sen. Dianne] Feinstein [D-CA] tried to suck
   her rooster's punctured lung clear so it could last a whole match, but
   she swallowed too much blood and puked everywhere. [Supreme Court
   Justice David] Souter had just broken up a fight between [Rep.] Mark
   Kennedy [R-MN] and [Rep. Jim] Oberstar [D-MN], after they knocked the
   damn carcass barrel all over the floor. When the raid happened, I was
   relieved. It was getting pretty dicey in there."

   The raids themselves were carried out with minimal resistance. Only
   Sen. John Edwards (D-NC) needed to be restrained and charged with
   resisting arrest.

   [5]Enlarge Image 34 Congressmen Arrested In D.C. Cockfighting
   Crackdown jump 

   Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) inspects fighting birds during a cock-buying
   trip to Tibet.

   Ramsey said that, though formal charges have yet to be filed, the
   congressmen taken into custody will most likely be charged with
   illegal gambling, animal cruelty, and collusion. Nearly all of the
   arrested cockfighting enthusiasts are out of jail after posting bail.
   However, not one of the arrested parties, even those who were not
   elected officials, has agreed to speak openly to reporters.

   One legislator who asked not to be identified said the charges were
   "petty," and that the indicted members of Congress were victims of a
   "witch-hunt."

   "Although violent, cockfighting is a traditional part of the American
   lawmaker's way of life," the legislator said. "It's a sport, with a
   code of conduct the uninitiated simply wouldn't understand. I'm sure
   many of the good people of Oklahoma, hypothetically speaking, would
   agree that there's a place for different people's tastes in this great
   country. As far as the cruelty charges go, that's ludicrous. I love my
   fighting cocks--my wife likes to say I treat my champion red-eyes
   better than I treat her--and I'm sure my fellow Congressmen would say
   much the same."

   As troubling as the mere existence of a legislative cockfighting ring
   may be, lawmakers who were not implicated in the scandal say they are
   more disturbed by evidence that legislation has been derailed,
   altered, or passed based on successes and failures in the cockfighting
   pit.

   "One week, the Civic Funding for Secondary Education Act is dead in
   the water, with no compromise on the horizon," Sen. John McCain (R-AZ)
   said. "The very next week, 12 Democrats turn over on their votes. I
   heard strange rumors that some hefty debt to the Senate Republicans
   was just erased--something involving '10-to-1 odds on a one-eyed Rhode
   Island Red.' It didn't make sense until this morning, when I flipped
   on the news and saw all these same senators getting cuffed at the
   rooster pit in a basement off Constitution."

   "Now that I think about it, this may explain why the Chicken Feed
   Price Stabilization Act passed through the House so quickly last
   month," McCain added.


   NEW YORK--Veteran New York City construction worker Lonnie Barbierri
   may, on the exterior, seem like the tough-guy type. But as any woman
   who has ever strolled past a building site where he was working can
   attest, under that rough exterior lies a sensitive side. No matter how
   busy he is, Barbierri always takes time to make sure the ladies know
   that he is interested, available, and ready for romance. And though he
   remains single after countless attempts to meet that special someone,
   Barbierri still believes that true love is within his grasp.
   [4]Enlarge Image Construction Worker 

   "Working the high steel" affords Barbierri a unique vantage point--"a
   bird's-eye view on love"--that allows him to see straight down a lot
   of chicks' shirts.

   "A lot of guys are afraid to make themselves vulnerable by revealing
   their emotions, but when I meet someone I'm interested in, I express
   how I feel--usually by saying something like 'Hey! You want a piece of
   this?'" said Barbierri, grabbing his crotch, grunting, and
   rhythmically thrusting his pelvis forward. "I figure you've got to put
   yourself out there. If you can't open up to a woman, she'll never have
   any way of knowing how much you want to give her the high hard one."

   "Deep down, I'm just a hopeless romantic," he added.

   Calling every woman special in her own way, Barbierri explained that
   he always tries to touch upon the individual qualities of each woman
   he greets. For example, if she happens to be drinking something
   through a straw, he'll ask if she wants something else to suck on. If
   she seems to be in a hurry, he'll ask where the fire is, and then
   subtly suggest that it may be, in fact, in his pants. And if her
   nipples are visibly poking through her shirt, he'll inquire if she is
   cold, and gallantly offer to warm those beauties up for her.

   "If I see a great pair of cans, I say so,"  said Barbierri, working on
   the twelfth floor of a future condominium complex on Manhattan's Upper
   East Side. "Who knows? She could be the one, and if I let my shyness
   get in the way, I might miss out forever on the chance to meet the
   girl of my dreams. I don't want to go through the rest of my life
   wondering whether fries do come with that shake."

   Despite Barbierri's disarming friendliness, personal warmth, and
   inviting "Sit on My Face" chest tattoo, virtually no women pedestrians
   are receptive to him. In fact, on the day Barbierri was interviewed,
   the female passersby invariably increased their pace, stared silently
   ahead, and avoided eye contact with the ironworker. To Barbierri's
   credit, he didn't let the string of rejections derail his positive
   outlook.

   "The right girl--the one who'll one day slice me off a serving of that
   sweet stuff and bring it straight home to Daddy--is out there,
   somewhere," he said. "New York's a big town, you know? And as long as
   I keep yelling 'nice rack' at all the hot pieces of ass out here on
   the sidewalk, I have faith that one of them will respond. Maybe even
   flash me the cooze."

   And despite his traditional Italian Catholic upbringing, Barbierri has
   never been one to allow race, creed, or color to stand in the way of
   his appreciation of beauty.

   "Hey, check out the Asian broad with the briefcase!" he said, spotting
   another potential life partner. "I wouldn't mind feeding her some beef
   chow mein, know what I'm saying? Yo, Tokyo Rose! You speakee dee
   Engrish? Me love you long time, baby!"

   Yet Barbierri doesn't base his judgments on surface appearances.
   Though admitting that some women whom he initiates contact with are
   "not that hot," all women, he said, have something about them that is
   beautiful.

   "I don't care if she's a triple-bagger-- everybody deserves a
   compliment now and then," he said. "That's the God-honest truth.
   Besides, some of the ugly ones might still have great legs, or a hot
   ass. Just because their faces could stop a train, that don't mean they
   can't give great head or appreciate a hot beef injection."

   It remains to be seen whether Barbierri, who turned 47 in April, will
   ever meet his soul mate. But if his optimism and enthusiasm provide an
   insight into his true character, Barbierri is quite the catch.

   "The important thing is to keep the lines of dialogue open," he said.
   "With women, communication is everything."


   January saw the passing of 78-year-old Coretta Scott King, widow of
   slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., and with it, the
   end of the FBI's around-the-clock phone surveillance of Mrs. King.
   [4]Enlarge Image Coretta Scott R 

   "After Mrs. King's death, the Bureau determined that the threat she
   posed to American security was significantly minimized to the point
   that the wiretapping should not continue," said Charles Torcello,
   special agent in charge of the FBI's Coretta Scott King surveillance
   unit.

   The FBI had monitored King since 1955, when her husband, Rev. Martin
   Luther King Jr., first gained the attention of law-enforcement
   officials by leading the Montgomery bus boycott against segregation in
   public mass transit.

   "Our vigilance paid off for America, even if it wasn't always pretty
   to witness an old woman slowly deteriorate," said Torcello, who
   admitted to a grudging respect for King, calling her "in many ways a
   subversive member of my own family."

   "She was a dedicated and admirable enemy," Torcello added.

   Torcello's view was widely shared by members of the FBI King unit,
   some of whom traveled to her Feb. 7 funeral service in Lithonia, GA,
   and discreetly parked their unmarked van behind the the church.

   "From what we could pick up, it was a beautiful service," said Agent
   Joyce Mallory, who had spied on King for nearly two decades. "We'll
   all miss her, but at least we'll still have thousands and thousands of
   taped transcriptions to remember her by."

   Other agents assigned to the King unit had their own memories of
   her. Some reminisced about using high-tech listening devices to gather
   information on the exact dates King was having her carpets cleaned, or
   on the locations of church functions she had organized. Nearly all
   agreed that the eavesdropping on a secret recipe for cornbread was one
   of the most valuable pieces of information garnered from the program.

   The FBI said that the four $78.2 million geosynchronous surveillance
   satellites that were used to watch King will be turned over to the
   unit monitoring the activities of rapper Kanye West's mother, Dr.
   Donda West.


   ALDERWINE, MO--Cracker Barrel CEO Michael Woodhouse announced Tuesday
   that the restaurant and retail chain would expand to a new location
   out by Highway 18, near the Harmon Road turnoff.
   [4]Enlarge Image Cracker Barrel Sign 

   The sign for the Cracker Barrel down by the ball fields

   "At Cracker Barrel, our mission is to give our customers hearty,
   all-American food and old license plates on the walls to look at while
   they eat," said Woodhouse, gesturing toward a scale model of the
   future restaurant, which is the same model used for all new location
   announcements. "That's why we're proud to announce our newest
   location, just up a ways past the Flying J."

   The new location will be the fourth Cracker Barrel in town, fifth if
   you count the one half a mile from the city limits where the dirt
   track speedway used to be.

   The decision to build one, Woodhouse said, was based on months of
   extensive internal research indicating that people around here like to
   eat, like to drive, and are willing to drive to eat.

   "Our data showed that folks driving north out of town might like a
   Cracker Barrel in the immediate area," Woodhouse said. "I always said
   there should be one out that way anyhow, so no matter which direction
   you're heading out, you can always stop at a Cracker Barrel."

   The new restaurant puts Cracker Barrel on track to outpace its chief
   rival, Bob Evans, which has only three locations in the whole county.
   While some have expressed concern that the increased traffic
   congestion may pose a problem for people on their way to church or the
   Winn-Dixie, reaction to the news has been largely positive.
   [5]Enlarge Image cracker map 

   "New Cracker Barrel, huh?" motorist Marlon Wentz said. "Well, all
   right."

   This newest Cracker Barrel will offer the chain's signature cuisine of
   fried chicken, biscuits and gravy, and grits, as well as its usual
   rustic, old-timey decor, replete with big jars of penny candy and
   merchandise such as ceramic chickens, berry-scented candles, teddy
   bears wearing American flag sweatshirts, and wooden-peg "IQ tests."
   The waitstaff will be comprised almost exclusively of matronly
   Caucasian females who pepper their conversation with the word
   "darlin'."

   "The down-home cooking, the Americana-themed souvenirs--Cracker
   Barrel's all about preserving a special way of life," Woodhouse said.
   "Plus, we got a gross of these salt and pepper shakers shaped like
   silos, and they need to go somewhere."

   Woodhouse also revealed that the location would have its own "real
   tall sign that lights up, so you won't be able to miss it if you try."

   "We'll be listed on those gas-food-lodging exit signs on the highway
   too," Woodhouse said. "You know, the ones that tell you if gas, food,
   or lodging is nearby."

   The restaurant is scheduled to be open for business in approximately
   three months. Ground-breaking will begin next Wednesday, and
   construction will be handled by the fellows who do pretty much all the
   building around here.

   Woodhouse confirmed that Cracker Barrel is considering opening
   additional locations in the near future, like one near where the Black
   Cat fireworks stand is now, and another down by that speed trap that
   gets people if they aren't careful.

   "We got a good thing going here," said Woodhouse, leaning back in his
   rocking chair. "Can't see why we shouldn't just keep on keeping on
   with it."


   HOUSTON--The intense pressure and scrutiny that comes with attempting
   to break Major League Baseball's all-time hit-batsman mark, a
   once-thought untouchable record that has stood at 287 for over a
   century, came to a head yesterday when Craig Biggio lashed out against
   the media, blaming an avalanche of news coverage and reporters'
   ceaseless questioning for his recent hit-by-pitch slump.
   [4]Enlarge Image Craig Biggio 

   Biggio has not been struck by a pitch since July and has stalled at
   285, while Hughie Jennings' awe-inspiring, much-revered record--set
   during a playing career that spanned the decade from 1893 to
   1903--seems to be getting further and further out of reach.

   "You guys perpetuated this by comparing me to Hughie day in and day
   out," said a chain-smoking Biggio, showing reporters from over 50
   media outlets the bundles of hate mail he has received from baseball
   fans. "Listen to these people: 'Quit now before you break the hearts
   of fans everywhere, Craig.' 'Hey Craig Bitch, I'll kill you and your
   family if you break the record.' 'Jennings did it without an arm
   guard.' Do you think they had even heard of this guy before you people
   had my countdown on the front page every day? Jesus Christ!"

   "More than anything, I just want to be hit by three more pitches so
   all of this will go away," said Biggio, who claims he has not slept in
   weeks and has developed multiple stomach ulcers. "Now I know why Don
   Baylor quit at 267."

   Though Biggio has refrained from comment on what national media
   outlets have dubbed "The Chase" for the majority of the season, last
   night's outburst was more than likely a reaction to a special guest
   editorial in this week's Sports Illustrated. The Tom Verducci-penned
   piece stated that, no matter what numbers eventually appeared in the
   "total hit by pitch" column, Jennings and his "magical" 51 hit-batsman
   season of 1894 could never be dethroned as baseball's all-time
   hit-by-pitch king.
     Craig Biggio card

   All-time hit-by-pitch king Jennings

   "Craig Biggio has played nearly 10 seasons more than Jennings--that
   means he has had the opportunity to be hit by hundreds of thousands
   more pitches," Verducci writes. "It's a regrettable fact that, like it
   or not, baseball fans will have to accept that Craig Biggio will
   ultimately be hit by a baseball more times than Hughie Jennings. But
   he will never, ever bring the same amount of excitement to being hit
   by a pitch that Hughie did."

   The final line of Verducci's article read, "Craig Biggio: All-Time
   Hit-Batsman Leader. Just doesn't sound right."

   According to ESPN baseball analyst Tim Kurkjian, the main difference
   between Jennings and Biggio is that, in Jennings' playing days, he was
   universally adored by fans in all eight baseball cities. Kurkjian
   notes that, perhaps unfairly, Biggio's attempt to break the record has
   only been embraced in Houston, evidenced by the enormous "Hit By
   Pitch" countdown sign in left field and by the fireworks that are set
   off every time Biggio is beaned.

   "True, Biggio is booed in every major-league ballpark other than his
   own," Kurkjian said. "But this is not just a historic record we're
   talking about here. It's a fairytale of a record, a romantic ideal
   almost, a high-water mark set by one of baseball's most well-known
   figures. Naturally, there is going to be a backlash."

   "And as far as I'm concerned, the arm-guard argument can be saved for
   a later time. The key for Biggio is to block everything out, play
   Craig Biggio baseball, and wait for his pitch. The wild fastballs and
   the non-breaking curveballs will eventually come if he's patient."

   With over 50 games remaining, Biggio has ample time to break the
   record, though there are several tangible factors that can be blamed
   for his recent stall. Most significant is the simple fact that the
   closer he gets to the immortal mark, pitchers around the league have
   been throwing to, instead of at, Biggio.

   "No one wants to be the guy who throws that record 288th bean-ball,"
   New York Mets pitcher Tom Glavine said. "From this point on, when
   Craig comes up to bat, he is only going to get pitches he can hit.
   Still, I am sure some pitcher will make a mistake, and serve up a wild
   pitch on a silver platter. When that happens, Craig will definitely
   know to lay into it."

   "After all," Glavine said, "he is one of the all-time greats."


   BALTIMORE--Police officers investigating complaints of a strange smell
   coming from an abandoned lot in the Curtis Bay neighborhood of
   Baltimore early Monday morning were shocked to stumble on the
   partially decomposed bodies of two unidentified children lying right
   next to an arrowhead that could be hundreds or perhaps even thousands
   of years old.
   [4]Enlarge Image Crime Scene 

   Baltimore Police Department lab technicians were shocked by the
   relatively good condition of the arrowhead.

   "At this time, we are using all available resources to determine just
   what occurred here," Sgt. Richard Palmer of the Baltimore Police
   Department said. "The best scenario we can imagine right now is that
   there was some kind of awesome Indian battle--maybe even an all-out
   war."

   "Of course, we'd love to find conclusive evidence that this thing
   belonged to Chief  Sitting Bull himself," Palmer added. "Right now,
   however, we just can't say for sure."

   While police say they remain baffled by the events that unfolded, they
   have been able to determine that the bodies are those of two young
   girls, believed to be between the ages of 8 and 10, both of whom
   suffered an apparently violent death. Their bodies showed signs of
   blunt force trauma to the head, as well as several postmortem stab
   wounds, although no indications of sexual abuse were present. A steel
   pipe bearing human blood and tissue matter was found at the scene but
   did not appear to be related to the arrowhead.

   "We just couldn't believe what we were seeing," said Lt. Derek
   LaScolla, the lead detective on the case. "As a police officer, you
   like to think you're prepared for anything, but an arrowhead all the
   way out here is an extremely rare find. I would have assumed they'd
   all been dug up during construction by now."

   LaScolla said the discovery was made at approximately 4 a.m., at which
   point police cordoned off a quarter-mile area surrounding the
   arrowhead and began conducting an extensive search for additional
   clues, such as some pottery or beads. The girls' dental records could
   not be checked because the teeth had all been removed, and the bodies
   do not appear to match any recent missing persons reports or any
   artists' depictions of what the Indians who once lived in the
   Baltimore area might have looked like.

   Unfortunately, no woolly mammoth hairs were found on the arrowhead.

   "It's difficult to imagine anything more tragic than this," Sgt.
   Palmer said. "Brave warriors used to walk on this very ground, and
   this [arrowhead] is all that remains of their legacy. It really puts
   everything into perspective."

   Initial forensics reports indicated that, because plants had not grown
   over the corpses completely, they had likely not been in that location
   for more than three months, and after years of exposure to the
   elements, the arrowhead's point was still quite sharp.

   "We're conducting an extensive study on the numerous gouge marks,"
   forensic investigator Marcelline Woodward said. "That's how they
   sharpened them. It's white flint, characteristic of the Delaware
   tribe, or maybe the Conoy. We'll put everything on hold at the lab
   until we can solve this mystery."

   Police continued to search the area through the night, but no
   additional bodies or Indian artifacts were found. Though authorities
   are hesitant to make any statements about the killer, they say that
   the typical profile is generally a male between the ages of 17 and 40,
   which was most likely the age of the hunter who lost his arrowhead in
   the first place.

   "It would be irresponsible to say anything definitive until we get the
   carbon dating results," said Woodward, sealing the arrowhead in a
   plastic baggie marked "Don't Touch!!!". "But if I had to guess, I'd
   say this arrowhead's like 500 years old. Imagine the journey this must
   have taken."

   The Baltimore police are urging citizens to come forward if they have
   noticed any suspicious activity in the neighborhood, if they might be
   able to identify the girls, or if they know anything about arrowheads.

   Dan Marino

   NEW YORK--Dan Marino, the former Dolphins quarterback, former multiple
   NFL all-time record holder, and current co-host of HBO's Inside The
   NFL, was the host, producer, and head writer of the hour-long HBO
   special Mr. 278, which aired Monday and commemorates Brett Favre
   breaking the all-time record for interceptions.

   "Join me in saluting Brett Favre for breaking the all-time
   interception record of 277 set by George Blanda--truly a milestone for
   the ages," Marino intoned during the opening montage, which featured
   Favre throwing some of his most memorable picks. "Some say records
   were made to be broken--personally, I've never believed that--but in
   any case the career interception mark was believed to be unreachable.
   It takes a player with an unusual combination of not knowing when to
   retire, not knowing when to stop trying to rack up the completions,
   and not knowing when to stop trying to throw touchdowns. And it seems
   that lucky player is everyone's big hero quarterback, Brett Favre."

   "I once held all the major records, but I never came close on
   interceptions," Marino added. "Also, I want to make it clear that I
   still have the records for passing yards in a season and in a career,
   but I have to hand it to Brett: He is now the interception record
   holder. Congratulations there, buddy."

   Marino began work on Mr. 278 late in the 2006 season, when it became
   apparent that Favre was on pace to break Blanda's interception record,
   as well as Marino's for touchdown passes, sometime in the 2007 season.
   When HBO producers balked at the idea of expanding their original
   planned 30-second supporting segment, Marino offered to work the show
   without pay and secured advertising commitments from NutriSystem, Papa
   John's Pizza, and Isotoner gloves.

   "I played in the NFL for many good years, which is why I set records
   for attempts, completions, and total seasons with 3,000 yards
   passing," Marino's voice can be heard to say as an on-screen graphic
   displayed the dozens of defensive players who had intercepted a Favre
   pass. "I even set a record for consecutive 3,000-yard seasons. Brett
   Favre has broken all of those, largely since he decided not to retire
   yet. And now, he has one of the most memorable records of all:
   interceptions."

   Marino then interviewed more than 30 current and former NFL players
   who had participated in Favre's record interception streak, including
   Brain Urlacher, Deion Sanders, Troy Vincent, and John Lynch. Marino
   devoted special attention to Sean Taylor, who was on the receiving end
   of Favre's record-breaking 278th interception, an ill-advised
   downfield sideline attempt thrown off the back foot, which Taylor
   neatly high-pointed.

   Marino also interviewed players who had intercepted Favre passes in
   college, during Favre's high school career in Mississippi, and during
   Packers training camp. In one poignant segment, Marino tracked down
   advertising copywriter Leroy Holsapple, the man who may have first
   intercepted Favre when, as an 8-year-old, he picked off a wild toss
   across the middle of the field during a 1979 Pop Warner game.

   "We've seen a lot of interceptions tonight," Marino said in conclusion
   as another painstakingly edited Favre interception montage, the ninth
   and last in the program, played behind him. "Were all of them were his
   fault? Maybe not--it's not for us to say. Am I jealous of his record?
   Maybe. I never considered myself to be all that concerned with
   statistics, and with my plus-168 TD-to-interception record, I'll never
   know what it's like to be "Mr. 278," the all-time interception king.
   Because the man who holds that record, perhaps forever, is Brett
   Favre."


   WASHINGTON, DC--In an emblematic move intended to stand in for the
   official symbolic reprimand of the president, a vehemently
   well-mannered mob of demonstrators censured an effigy of George W.
   Bush Tuesday, making known its displeasure over such actions as
   illegal wiretapping and the politically motivated firing of federal
   lawyers.
   [4]Enlarge Image Civilized Mob 

   An activist holds aloft the censure motion so that all in the crowd
   can read it carefully and make up their minds.

   Armed with neatly lettered signs, and umbrellas in the event of rain,
   the group milled about the Capitol for several hours, chanting the
   anti-Bush slogans "Bush Must Go Through The Same Channels As Any Other
   President to Take Military Action--That Actually Falls Under Congress'
   Purview" and "Down With The Idea Of Executive Privilege, Both In
   General And As It Relates To Bush" before performing the mock censure.

   Although some members of the crowd initially incited a metaphorical
   impeachment of the president, a majority felt that would be far too
   harsh a symbolic action to take. After agreeing on the censure, the
   decorous riffraff whipped themselves into a relative frenzy and
   clamored single file to the National Mall with the meticulously
   crafted Bush effigy.

   "Things really got out of hand after we drafted and considered the
   resolution and then presented it to the mock House Judiciary
   Committee," participant Patrick Firth said about the mob's public
   representation of a procedure that neither directly affects the
   presidency nor carries any particular legal consequences. "After we
   finally adopted the motion to proceed, there was no turning back. I
   felt like I was watching someone else edit and redraft the approved
   measure."

   The Bush effigy, a surprisingly accurate likeness outfitted in a blue
   suit and red power tie, was originally to be taken to the steps of the
   Capitol Building for the censure proceedings. The mob turned back,
   however, when one among the rabble called a point of order and
   explained that the president would not be present if Congress were
   actually to pass censure. The crowd then unanimously moved to postpone
   its mock Senate vote until a detailed facsimile of the Oval Office
   could be constructed on the lawn of the Mall and the effigy placed
   inside it.
   [5]Enlarge Image Civilized Mob Jump 

   Unruly pro-censure radicals in Washington. One observer described the
   atmosphere as "rife with umbrage."

   Censure then appeared inevitable, until a faction of the horde
   brandished effigies of Republican senators and mounted a filibuster.

   "It was a scary couple hours," said demonstrator Harold Lemarche, who
   helped beat back the stonewalling tactic after a long but orderly
   debate. "There was even some talk of abandoning Robert's Rules of
   Order. It's a good thing the mock senators were able to muster the
   three-fifths majority vote required to defeat the filibuster, or this
   thing could have gotten real ugly, real fast."

   When the measure finally passed, the news was officially delivered to
   the effigy and a large banner reading "CENSURED!" was hung above it.
   This was followed by several minutes of silent pointing and glaring
   before the crowd slowly dispersed.

   Democratic leaders were quick to distance themselves from the subdued
   riot out of fear that condoning even a meta-symbolic political rebuke
   would alienate some of their more mild-mannered constituents.

   "We understand that many Americans are frustrated with the current
   administration, but that doesn't mean they should be staging a
   constitutionally mandated political procedure on the streets of our
   nation's capital," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said. "We urge you,
   please do not take the letter of the law into your own hands. Instead,
   write firm but polite correspondence to your congressional
   representatives."

   Top Republicans loudly denounced the censure.

   "This is exactly the kind of vicious, unbridled, restrained
   indignation we can expect if Democrats stay in power," Senate Minority
   Whip Trent Lott said. "Where will this behavior end--a mock
   no-confidence vote against the surgeon general?"

   According to witnesses, police were present at the scene of the
   figurative censure but were powerless to stop the mob, as all of the
   paperwork required to stage the demonstration had been filed weeks
   earlier.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Democrats in both houses of Congress demanded a
   thorough inquiry Monday into whether or not the American people think
   they are doing a good enough job, and what, if anything, they should
   do differently.
   [4]Enlarge Image House Democrats 

   Sen. Majority Leader Reid grills the press on whether they like him.

   "We cannot afford to make a wrong move as we face this crucial
   crossroads in our nation's history, which is why we need to know for
   sure what decision you'll support the most before we make it," said
   House Speaker Nancy Pelosi at a Democratic National Committee
   fundraiser Monday, scrutinizing the assembled crowd for signs of
   approval. "The question facing us today is simple: Do you like us? If
   not, why? We demand an answer."

   Added Pelosi: "The time for second-guessing our every move is now."

   The DNC is in the process of forming a blue-ribbon advisory panel to
   investigate the true extent of Democratic popularity. Members
   reportedly include former Democratic congressman and
   independent-committee stalwart Lee Hamilton, pundit Arianna
   Huffington, Columbus, OH resident and semi-regular voter Nicole Jones,
   and Mukesh Chennapragada, a guy in the phone book. Among the panel's
   tasks are determining exactly what the clear mandate the Democrats
   received in their sweeping election victory last November was, and
   seeking the advice of political strategists, trend-watchers,
   historians, elder statesmen, psychologists, family, friends,
   acquaintances, and people on the street believed to represent "real
   Americans."

   Finally, the panel will close its investigation by releasing an
   official "Democratic Performance Comment Card," which will rate the
   party as either "poor," "fair," "average," or "excellent." Room for
   additional comments will be provided on the back of the card.

   Some Democrats, however, deem the panel inadequate, and call for
   Congress to appoint an independent counsel to cross-examine
   constituents. Others believe that the feedback from a special 1-800
   "How's Our Governing?" number, which has been featured on bumper
   stickers affixed to the campaign tour buses of Democratic presidential
   candidates, should be analyzed before proceeding further.

   "We need to aggressively pursue whatever it is people think we should
   do," Sen. John Kerry (D-MA) said. "We took a bold stance against the
   war--is that okay with everyone? We thought that was what people
   wanted, but we are not above changing our minds if that is what the
   situation requires. We also aired some pretty harsh rhetoric about the
   current administration--were we out of line? If people think we should
   ease back on the president for a while, we'll be more than happy to
   take a week off and focus on naming airports. We just need to know."

   Kerry continued: "We do not--and I cannot stress this enough--want to
   offend anybody or cause anyone to dislike us for any reason."

   Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said he is confident, or mostly
   confident, that the results of the inquiry will make the Democratic
   Party more responsive to the needs of its constituents, or at least
   more likeable.

   "We just want to be as popular as we can be," Reid said. "Without
   immediate and diligent oversight on this matter, we have no idea if we
   are or are not doing whatever it is everybody may or may not want at
   any given time. Most of you are still opposed to the war, right? If an
   election were held today, would you still vote for us? These are
   questions that demand answers."

   "That is, unless that's too much to ask," Reid added. "If that's too
   controversial a question, or if it makes anyone feel uncomfortable in
   any way, please, just let us know. Unless, of course, you honestly
   don't mind. Then it's fine."

   Congressional Republicans have accused Democrats of abusing their
   newfound power.

   "They're bogging down the democratic process for no reason," House
   Minority Leader John Boehner said. "When we were the majority, we
   didn't care how Americans felt--we just did what we wanted."

   The harshest criticism of the move has, as usual, come from the
   Democrats themselves.

   "By acting hastily, we may be encouraging possible negative public
   opinion in 2008," Rep. Bob Filner (D-CA) said. "The last thing we
   Democrats need to do now is pressure the American people, when so much
   is on the line. If they want to give us more feedback, I'm sure they
   will, in time. It's best not to take too many risks."

   "Right?" Filner added.


   WASHINGTON, DC--In the latest in a long series of ominous public
   pronouncements, the Department of Evil released a statement Monday
   demanding that all residents of the United States must die.
   [4]Enlarge Image Department Of Evil 

   Dread Secretary of Evil Hammond S. Reynolds told reporters that they,
   too, must die.

   "Yes, all must die," Dread Secretary of Evil Hammond S. Reynolds said
   during a press conference in Room 1228 of Washington's Robert C.
   Weaver Federal Building. "There shall soon come an accounting in which
   all will fall before the Grim Reaper as wheat in winter, as lambs
   under the knife. Soon all necks will feel the steely bite of our soul-
   thirsting axe, wielded by the unforgiving iron hand of the Department
   of Evil. Thus spake I, Dread Secretary Reynolds."

   The dread secretary then took questions from the assembled reporters.

   Although the Department of Evil has not yet announced the exact
   timetable for the death of all, it recommends citizens make their
   peace with doomed relatives and spouses immediately, as the hour of
   their ending draws ever nigh and will be upon them as soon as the
   necessary funding has been authorized by the House Appropriations
   Committee.

   "This budget approval is merely a pitiful, niggling formality, for
   soon we'll be free to swarm across the land draining the life-pus out
   of all you quivering mortal worms," Reynolds said. "Doubt us not: Come
   the wintertide, you all shall die, and die you will. Sorry, I meant
   'must.' Die you must!"

   Originally established by an act of Congress in 1953 and granted
   broader powers and funding in 1986 under the second Reagan
   administration, the Department of Evil has been an occasional source
   of controversy. Its 1993 And The Streets Shall Run Red With The Blood
   Of The Innocent initiative was highly criticized at the time by
   moderates, who thought the department's agenda overly harsh.
   [5]Enlarge Image Department Of Evil Jump 

   An official from the Department of Evil described their 2007 strategic
   action plan at a conference in January.

   In 2004, an ambitious plan to seed the clouds with blood and then rain
   excruciation down upon the thrice-damned didn't even make it past a
   Senate budget committee, which criticized the plan as poorly
   conceived.

   And last year, the department received a stinging blow after Congress
   voted to allocate only one-third of the money requested to swell the
   ranks of its deranged, barbarous demon cavalry.

   Despite those recent setbacks, a DOE spokesbeast said that the dread
   secretary remains confident that his department will prevail in the
   end.

   To publicize their current mission, the Department of Evil distributed
   to media outlets a ring-bound portfolio titled "You Shall All Perish
   Screaming 2007," which provides estimates and logistics detailing how
   everyone will die, a line-by-line budget breakdown, and an addendum
   apologizing that the document was not printed in human blood. The full
   text is available at evil.gov.

   The "All Must Die" initiative, the highest-profile program proposed by
   the DOE in recent memory, came under almost immediate scrutiny from
   politicians on both sides of the aisle.

   "I don't understand why we still even have a Department of Evil," Sen.
   Sherrod Brown (D-OH) said. "It's a Cold War holdover, an artifact of
   the '50s that has outlived its usefulness. Mr. Reynolds has done as
   good a job as any recent dread secretary, but as afraid as I am of
   him, I believe his talents would be better served at Education or
   Agriculture."

   "Once again, Mr. Reynolds wants to throw money at the everyone-dies
   issue--in this case, $11.43 billion," Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA) said.
   "This is a waste of taxpayer dollars to do work best left to the
   private sector. It's high time for the DOE to be absorbed into
   Homeland Security, where it belongs."

   At the press conference, Reynolds refused to disclose his reasons for
   proposing that all must die.

   "Question not the dread secretary, insects!" said Reynolds, rearing
   back his mighty head and bellowing as a powerful crescendo emanated
   from the department's enormous Gothic pipe organ. "First, the
   bandwagoners in Congress seek to derail our plans or committee them to
   death. Now, the mindless blood-bags who populate this teeming nation
   wish to know why they must perish. I will respond with the same answer
   we have always given: Despair, groveling vermin, and may your deaf,
   blind God forsake the United States of America! We're done here."


   HOUSTON--Local resident Ethan Kendler's description of his sexual
   fantasies to girlfriend Rebecca LaBatt veered awkwardly from the kinky
   to the banal Sunday, as a raunchy but emotionally honest expression of
   carnal desire degenerated into inoffensive, marginally erotic
   entreaties.

   "We meet up with your friends Kelly and Tiffany at a bar, or just
   Kelly, actually, and we get kind of drunk," said Kendler, 25, a bike
   shop technician, as he snuggled with LaBatt in his one-bedroom
   apartment. "While we're playing pool, she bends over to line up her
   shot and we notice she's not wearing any panties."
   [4]Enlarge Image Sexual Fantasy 

   "That's when we decide that she's had too much to drink and escort her
   home," added Kendler, who had quickly noted LaBatt's silent reaction.
   "Because it's not safe for her to walk home alone at night."

   Kendler, who has been dating LaBatt, 26, since May, reportedly leaped
   at her invitation to share his sexual fantasies, eager to divulge the
   various scenarios of voyeurism and exhibitionism he had kept to
   himself for a decade. But his shyness soon returned last week after a
   description of spying on his girlfriend through her door while she
   fondled herself caused the corners of LaBatt's mouth to turn down
   slightly. Kendler muttered that he was "just kidding" and quickly
   abandoned the scenario.

    "So on the way home from dropping off Kelly, ensuring that she safely
   gets inside her apartment, we pass through a dark alley and I tie you
   up," Kendler said. "With the gentle embrace of my arms. And I hold you
   tight as a soft mist covers us. And my hand moves toward your, your
   hand so I can pull, or guide you willingly, back to my place, and
   climb into my nice big warm bed."

    Alarmed that LaBatt had not met his gaze for several seconds, Kendler
   chose not to relate his desire to dress her like a schoolgirl, apply
   nipple clamps, and play sadistic headmaster.

   A desperate Kendler quickly cast his eyes around his apartment in
   search of something that could move the fantasy in a different,
   mutually satisfying direction.

    "There's whipped cream in the refrigerator," said Kendler, encouraged
   by a fleeting gleam in LaBatt's eye. "I spray some on your...whatever
   you prefer to call your vagina. Then I get out my camera and make sure
   it's turned off."

   Kendler also substituted the word "lovingly" for the words "roughly,"
   "eagerly," and "thoroughly," and perhaps demonstrated too much
   sensitivity towards the fact that LaBatt has a twin sister.

   Kendler showed signs of achieving a possible sex-fantasy breakthrough
   when he began talking about using sex toys in his and LaBatt's
   lovemaking, and then embarked on a spanking scenario. Fearing that
   LaBatt might suspect that he was talking about his ex-girlfriend,
   however, he cut his digression short and settled on describing a
   romantic candlelight dinner.

    "I put my finger up your--" said Kendler, choking back the word
   "ass." "Lips. Up to your lips. Like, to hush you, because the moment
   is so awe-inspiring. Then I move my hand to the back of your head and,
   um, stroke your hair. And then we make gentle, respectful, beautiful
   love. Then we cuddle. And that's what my fantasy is."

    The discussion culminated with the couple engaging in enthusiastic,
   but otherwise routine missionary-position sex, which LaBatt described
   in a Monday phone interview as "nice, but not that different from
   anything we've done before."

    "I was really surprised by how tender his fantasy was," LaBatt said.
   "I was giving off all these body-language cues to get him to talk
   dirty--but I guess he's just naturally sweet and old-fashioned. I was
   really hoping he would talk about tying me up and fucking me in the
   ass. Is it just me, or are guys complete pussies?"


   SAN FRANCISCO--A sellout crowd rose to its feet and exploded into
   ecstatic cheers Tuesday night as Barry Bonds completed the downfall of
   America's most revered sport by hitting a thundering 435-foot shot
   into the right center field bleachers for career home run No. 756 and
   tainting baseball's most beloved record.
   [4]Enlarge Image Barry Bonds 

   Celebrations broke out throughout AT&T Park and thousands of
   flashbulbs went off as Bonds took his ceremonial trip around the
   bases, his arms raised in a jubilant gesture of triumph as he
   completed his desecration of baseball. Fireworks filled the night sky
   to mark the utter destruction of the national pastime, a scramble for
   the infamous baseball broke out in the stands, and the game was
   interrupted for 10 minutes in the bottom of the fifth to mark the
   shameful occasion.

   Mike Bacsik, the pitcher who made the difficult and admirable decision
   to pitch to Bonds as if he were a normal player, and who will forever
   be known as the man whose fastball was sent out of the park along with
   the last remnant of baseball's self-respect, could only watch. Bonds
   would later present Bacsik with an autographed bat.

   Moments after Bonds crossed home plate into the loving arms of his
   family and the eventual judgment of history, he addressed the fans,
   thanking them for their support on his long, hard road of perverting
   baseball.

   "Thank you very much. I got to thank all of you, all the fans here in
   San Francisco. It's been fantastic," he said to his deluded and
   complicit home crowd as his godfather Willie Mays, a fading symbol of
   what baseball once was, stood at his side.

   As soon as Bonds completed his self-congratulation, a self-conscious
   gasp could be heard as a videotaped message from Hank Aaron was played
   over the video screen, sending surprise and a fleeting moment of
   uncomfortable self-awareness through both the crowd and Bonds himself.

   "Throughout the past century, the home run has held a special place in
   baseball and I have been privileged to hold this record for 33 of
   those years," said Aaron, whose legacy of persevering with profound
   personal dignity through racism and persecution to become the all-time
   home run leader will hopefully not be tarnished by public
   acknowledgment of Bonds.

   "I move over now and offer my best wishes to Barry and his family on
   this historic achievement," Aaron concluded, displaying infinitely
   more grace than Bonds, baseball fans, and perhaps even baseball itself
   had any right to ask of him.

   Bonds then presented his helmet, gloves, and bat to a steward of the
   Baseball Hall of Fame for shipment to Cooperstown, where they will be
   enshrined forever, allowing fathers and sons to come and stare at them
   glumly as they bear mute witness to baseball's diminished glory.

   The Nationals won the game, 8-6.


   PHOENIX--Years of controversy were finally settled Monday after DNA
   tests conclusively proved that Duane Panovich, an attraction at the
   Phoenix Zoo for the past 11 years, was indeed a human being, and not a
   reticulated giraffe from southwestern Kenya.
   [4]Enlarge Image DNA Evidence Frees Man From Zoo 

   Panovich's former herd-mates enjoy some alfalfa.

   "This is truly a day of jubilation and vindication," said Panovich's
   attorney, Frank Hablis, who successfully argued in a federal court in
   June that the zoo should permit a DNA test to determine whether
   Panovich was genetically closer to a Homo sapiens or a Giraffa
   camelopardalis. "We're deeply grateful that science has advanced
   enough over the years to finally uncover the truth and clear his name
   of the allegations of giraffehood that have been such a burden to him
   and his family."

   Shortly after the findings were revealed, Phoenix Zoo staff
   tranquilized, crated, and transported Panovich by helicopter to his
   Mesa, AZ home, where he was released into his front yard and
   reintroduced to his mate and two young.

   "It's good to finally be home, but more than anything I'm looking
   forward to wearing clothes again," a still-groggy Panovich told
   reporters as an oxpecker bird sat on his shoulder and fed on ticks.

   Panovich, a 42-year-old electrical engineer who stands approximately
   5-feet-11-inches tall, was known during his years at the zoo as
   Wekesa, the Swahili word for "shimmering lily."
   [5]Enlarge Image DNA Evidence Jump 

   As Wekesa, Panovich was among the Phoenix Zoo's most beloved
   attractions. His image was reproduced on hot-selling T-shirts and
   coffee mugs, and he even inspired a Wekesa beanbag stuffed animal.

   Though the zoo eventually bowed to demands from human-rights activists
   to return Panovich to his natural habitat, resentment lingers over his
   release.

   "Wekesa will be back, mark my words," said Reggie Martin, the
   attendant who looked after Panovich for more than a decade. "He'll
   break loose and be eating out of someone's flower box when we pick him
   up again."

   In July 1996, Panovich and his wife Claire were visiting the zoo with
   their then- preschool-age children when several zoo employees believed
   they had spotted a loose giraffe wandering near the baboon exhibit.
   Quickly cordoning off the area, they lassoed Panovich, tranquilized
   him, and placed him in the giraffe pen. Although it was discovered a
   few days later that the zoo had one more giraffe than usual, no owner
   stepped forward to claim Panovich, and a decision was made to keep
   him.
     Duane Panovich

   Duane Panovich

   However, zoo officials began to sense trouble with their new giraffe a
   year later when they attempted to breed him with several of the zoo's
   female giraffes. Panovich sired no calves and showed virtually no
   interest in the opposite sex.

   "That was a big disappointment," Martin said. "He had the ability to
   rut year-round, which is very unique for a giraffe. But when we'd
   spray him with female giraffe urine so he'd become aroused by the
   pheromones, he'd try to kick me with his hooves."

   Although zoo captivity offered him such comforts as free veterinary
   care, a fully heated winter enclosure, and fresh acacia leaves
   imported at considerable expense, Panovich could only think of
   freedom.

   "I so wanted to escape," said Panovich as he fought back tears. "But I
   was worried I'd fall and break my leg trying to jump the concrete
   moat, and then they would be forced to put me down."

   He added that the hardest part of his long ordeal was not being around
   to see his children grow up, except for rare occasions when they came
   to visit with their classes on field trips.

   "Wekesa often told me that he didn't belong in here," Martin said.
   "But everybody says that."

   Through the years, Claire Panovich repeatedly petitioned the zoo to
   release her husband, arguing that his markings, lack of horns, and
   bipedal gait were not consistent with that of a giraffe. She was
   forcibly removed by zoo security on several occasions, most notably in
   2002 for throwing a box of his favorite Hostess snack cakes into his
   pen.

   In a statement following Panovich's release, the zoo said it will
   appeal the court's decision regarding its former giraffe. In spite of
   this, Panovich's story has spurred new interest in the case of
   Ernesto, a scarlet ibis that claims to be a contractor hired to
   remodel the aviary at the Houston Zoo.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Citing centuries of quality- control issues that have
   resulted in chronic unreliability, cascading system failures, and even
   total unit shutdown, the American Pug Breeders Association announced a
   recall Monday of all pugs produced between February 2006 and the
   present day.
   [4]Enlarge Image Dog Breeders 

   "We apologize wholeheartedly to any and all owners of the 2007 pug,"
   APBA director Betty McAndrews said at a press conference, standing
   before a table where 10 defective pugs were displayed. "While pug
   owners are accustomed to dog malfunction, the latest animals are prone
   to more problems than just the usual joint failures, overheating,
   seizures, chronic respiratory defects, and inability to breed without
   assistance. The latest model pug is simply not in any way a viable
   dog."

   According to the APBA's online recall notice, pugs produced in the
   specified period are at "moderate to high risk" for convulsive
   respiratory failure, soft palate suppuration, corneal ulcers leading
   to sudden deliquescence of the eyeballs, catastrophic lung collapse,
   ingrown ribs, diabetes, patellar luxation, encephalitis, Lou Gehrig's
   pug's disease, impacted hips, neck dysplasia, tracheal fissures,
   morbid obesity, cranial arthritis, and leakage of the anal sacs. In
   addition, due to strong allergic reactions to almost all medications,
   97 percent of pugs are untreatable.
   [5]Recalled Pugs 

   Recalled Pugs

   This week, the APBA has begun to send out recall information and
   cardboard mailing boxes to registered pug owners, who are asked to
   place their '07 pug inside the box, seal it, and, if they wish, punch
   air holes in the top and sides. Owners must then put the box inside an
   airtight heavy-duty plastic bag, affix a postage-paid mailing label,
   and drop it off at any U.S. post office.

   In order to ensure that all '07 pugs are taken out of circulation, the
   organization is also providing a complimentary on-site disposal
   service to pug owners who are otherwise unable to participate in the
   recall.

   "We'd prefer to destroy all units here at our headquarters--we already
   have the chimneys going day and night," McAndrews said. "But the very
   young and the very old seem rather reluctant to send in their pugs,
   despite all of their well-documented flaws. To protect our reputation
   as pug breeders, we're going to spend the next month visiting
   individual homes and putting these dogs out of everyone's misery."

   For Mason City, IA pug owner Lee Kraus, the APBA's announcement comes
   as a complete vindication after years of contending with defective
   pugs. In the past five years alone, Kraus has attempted to return
   three of the dogs to his local breeder, and each time has been denied
   either a refund or an exchange for a more reliable make, such as a
   Shih Tzu.

   "I'm glad to see the APBA is finally taking responsibility for this
   disaster," Kraus said. "Governor Fattpants gave me insomnia with his
   constant snorting, and Boiler ruined my bedroom set when he went into
   total renal shutdown."

   Cindy Anderson of the Sarasota, FL-based Pug Owners Group shares
   Kraus's frustration with the highly developed breed.

   "After trying and failing to nurse Princess Kevin through hemorrhagic
   lupus and Boatsley through a hysterical tubal pregnancy, I don't know
   if I'll ever own another pug," Anderson said. "It's not worth the
   hassle."

   "Oh, who am I kidding? They're just so cute!" she added. "I love their
   adorable snorting and their funny little waddle. We're going to call
   our next one Lopez."


   LOS ANGELES--Following his critically acclaimed performance in the
   post-Sept. 11 drama Reign Over Me, a "spellbinding" interview on The
   Colbert Report, and a graceful supporting role in a recent "Make Your
   Own Super Bowl Commercial" ad campaign, actor's actor and voice of his
   generation Don Cheadle captivated patrons of Ollie's Coffee Shop in
   downtown L.A. Monday with his order of a grande half-caff Americano
   and banana- walnut muffin.
     Don Cheadle

   "In a word? Breathtaking," said student Jonathan Stern, who has called
   the three-and-a-half-minute transaction "the Million Dollar Baby" of
   coffee shop purchases. "Cheadle managed to deliver the kind of raw,
   seething emotion necessary to capture the urgency of his craving for
   caffeine."

   "I felt like I was there, experiencing it right alongside him, instead
   of sitting several feet away near the window," Stern added.

   Cheadle, best known for his work in Hotel Rwanda, has received endless
   praise and even an Oscar nomination for his ability to deliver deeply
   resonant performances in dramatic films about African genocides and
   strained race relations, as well as in offbeat comedies and A-list
   heist films.

   "God, I keep thinking about the way he paused to check the specials
   board," said regular Ollie's customer and cosmetologist Joyce Ruiz.
   "Everything was in that pause. A lesser actor could easily have
   oversold the desire for a cranberry bran muffin, but Cheadle remained
   deliberate and restrained."
   [4]Enlarge Image Don Cheadle Cafe 

   "I can't imagine even Terrence Howard or Philip Seymour Hoffman
   pulling that off with such aplomb," Ruiz continued.

   Living up to his reputation as a "dogged perfectionist," Cheadle was
   spotted researching the highly anticipated purchase at several
   different Los Angeles-area coffee shops in recent months. Though the
   actor spent years testing various wardrobe options and beverage
   choices, the 10-odd customers who were lucky enough to witness the
   final product agreed that his hard work paid off.

   "What I saw today was gold-standard Cheadle," said general contractor
   Dave Hoyt, who was in line during the actor's purchase. "I'd venture
   to say it was the most amazing performance I've seen from him since I
   drove past a bus that had his Gap ad on the side. I sobbed in my car
   for a long time that day, thinking about art's capacity to transcend
   human tragedy."
     The Transaction

   Customers also heaped praise on the unorthodox, and at times
   surprising, decisions that separated Cheadle's purchase from so many
   others.

   "He made some gutsy choices that would have fallen flat in less
   talented hands," said real estate agent Beverly Kinney of a
   controversial moment during the transaction when Cheadle dropped some
   of his change onto the floor after paying.  "But under Cheadle's
   command, they served to seamlessly create a convincing dimension of
   vulnerability and humanity."

   Employees at the coffee shop noted that barista Monica Naylor turned
   in her career-best performance during the transaction, reinforcing
   Cheadle's reputation as a customer who pushes those he purchases
   things from to the zenith of their abilities.

   "Cheadle put Monica at ease," coworker Kyle Brent said. "He never
   overshadowed or downplayed the importance of her part in the purchase,
   and she definitely benefited from his experience as a customer. He's
   just one of those people who makes everyone around him better."

   Ollie's patron Sarah Shoemaker, 27, added that the transaction was
   "the most powerful exchange of goods and services of the year."

   Cheadle's performance, however, was not without its critics.

   "This is the second time in as many days that he's been to this caf,"
   Shoemaker said. "He should mix it up a bit. A bail bonds office? An
   ice-cream shop? An ATM? He's such a phenomenal talent that it'd be a
   shame to see him get into a rut and fall short of his potential."


   MINNEAPOLIS--Addressing a group of incoming University of Minnesota
   freshmen at an orientation meeting Sunday, Comstock Hall resident
   assistant Marcus Nelson told students they were lucky to be living on
   his floor because, unlike the other RAs on campus, he wasn't "on a big
   power trip."
   [4]Enlarge Image Dorm RA 

   Dorm RA Marcus Nelson told his residents that as a freshman he used to
   live on this same dorm floor himself.

   Nelson, a senior beginning his second year as a resident assistant on
   the coed dormitory's fourth floor, promised the 42 new students a
   "totally laid-back, no-pressure atmosphere of mutual respect and trust
   and stuff like that" during their stay.

   "You've got a leg up on other freshmen already, because 4-North
   rocks," Nelson said. "There's amazing energy here, because we keep it
   positive."

   Added Nelson: "I only have one rule. Call me Marc, not Marcus."

   Wearing a baseball cap turned backwards and his room key on a string
   around his neck, the Mankato, MN-born education major vowed "not to
   crack down too hard" on anyone violating bans on hot plates or masking
   tape on the walls. Nelson said that, whenever possible, he preferred
   using the honor system.

   "I'm not here to come down on you," Nelson said. "I won't flip out if
   you plug in a 150-watt or larger halogen-lamp bulb. I'd ask you to get
   rid of it only because I wouldn't want you to get in trouble, not
   because I get off on bossing you around."

   "I'm also not going to write you up for playing your stereo during
   quiet hours," he added. "Just don't be really loud. I'm pretty mellow,
   but I do have a job to do. And this is just common sense, but never
   pull the fire alarm except in the event of an emergency."

   Nelson then rolled his eyes and smirked as he described the
   university's "strict" drug and alcohol ban as outlined in the student
   handbook, repeatedly reminding the dorm residents that the disclosure
   was something he "had to do."

   "I should also mention that on the first day there's a mandatory
   diversity workshop in the lounge," Nelson said. "I know it sounds like
   a bummer, but I've been to it before, and it actually makes some cool
   points. I think you might get something out of it."

   Following the orientation, Nelson mingled among the students and
   further promoted his relaxed, non-tight-ass image.

   "I might have seemed intimidating up there, but I'm chill," Nelson
   told first-year student John Andrusco. "I've got your back, man. I
   don't care what you do, just don't get me in trouble."

   Nelson also confided to freshmen Craig Szyla and Tom Luo that he
   installed the name signs on their assigned dorm rooms himself.

   "The hall director wanted us to just put your names up," Nelson said.
   "I was like, no way. You guys are way cooler than that, so I put
   Family Guy stickers on them too."

   Despite Nelson's prediction that the incoming freshmen will want to
   stay at Comstock until they graduate, University of Minnesota campus
   residency records reveal that 43 of the 46 students who lived on
   Nelson's floor during the last school year are now living off campus.

   Of the three who continue to live at Comstock, one is Nelson himself,
   the sole member of the class of 2008 still living in the dormitory.

   Though it's unlikely that the current batch of residents will have any
   extended interaction with Nelson in the coming year, he urged them to
   seek him out if they have any concerns or just want to talk.

   "Just flag me down--we could get some sodas at the union, or
   brainstorm a kick-ass bulletin board theme," Nelson said. "Or I could
   bust out the Minnesotaopoly game. Whatever, I'll be around."

   Nelson concluded his talk by wishing the students an "awesome year,"
   and asking them to please not steal furniture from the lounge and put
   it in their rooms.

   "We're really fortunate to have Marcus," freshman Dave Unger said.
   "From what he told us, he's nothing like other RAs."


   WASHINGTON, DC--The Dove Campaign For Real Beauty formally announced
   Monday its 2008 nominee for president, 28-year-old Julie, a size 10.
   [4]Enlarge Image Julie 

   Naturally beautiful Dove campaign nominee Julie announces her
   candidacy.

   "My self-esteemed colleagues, American voters come in all shapes and
   sizes. When you vote for me, you vote for a celebration of diversity,"
   said Julie, a veterinary assistant from Cedar Rapids, IA, in a
   ceremony at the Washington Hilton. "My presidency will prove that you
   don't have to be a size two to build better relations with China. That
   you don't have to be skinny to lower our skyrocketing trade deficit.
   All you need is the nonjudgmental support of the American people."

   Julie added that, if elected, she would work hard to lower
   self-interest rates, help the nation focus on its strengths rather
   than its weaknesses, and mount a swift, body-positive plan to force
   Iran to abandon its nuclear program.

   The announcement--which coincided with the launch of Dove's new
   collection of intensive firming lotions, creams, and body washes--was
   followed by a gala fund-raiser attended by Real Beauty campaign
   contributors Oprah Winfrey, Katie Couric, and Ellen DeGeneres. The
   event culminated with singer Chaka Khan performing "I'm Every Woman,"
   the official campaign anthem.

   Julie, who emerged as the front-runner after beating out several
   naturally beautiful candidates at a caucus in January--including
   Stacey, an administrative assistant from La Puente, CA, and Marion, a
   homemaker and mother of two from Augusta, GA--took several years of
   Spanish in high school, enjoys riding her bike, and considers french
   fries her favorite food.

   Campaign manager Nanette Villanueva says Julie will run on three
   initiatives: a heightened emphasis on national emotional security,
   broadening cultural perceptions of beauty, and cutting long-term
   capital gains taxes.

   "This is a big country, and it takes a real woman to run it,"
   Villanueva said. "Julie loves her curves just the way they are, and
   that makes her special."

   Villanueva added: "She's got thighs, and that's what this campaign is
   all about."

   A recent poll supports Villanueva's remarks, finding more than 85
   percent of American women are dissatisfied with their bodies, and over
   half are dissatisfied with the U.S. economy.

   Yet Julie's "Healthy Agenda For America" has received only one key
   endorsement: from the powerful life-coach union. And so far only a
   small, vocal minority has come out in support of her candidacy.

   "Americans are simply not ready for a plus-size woman president," said
   political analyst Paul Koskovich. "Even though more than a third of
   the U.S. population is significantly overweight, she still has very
   wide hips."

   Among her supporters, however, Julie is an inspiration.

   "I like a candidate with some meat on her bones," said Baton Rouge,
   LA, resident Len Crewley. "I could look at those big white panties for
   four whole years, sure."

   Villanueva, meanwhile, did not deny that Julie may need to drop in
   size to see her poll numbers rise. "Julie would make a confident,
   self-assured president at any weight," she said. "But we'll look at
   the numbers after the primaries."


   WASHINGTON, DC--Seeking to "narrow the focus of the drug war to the
   true enemy," Congress passed a bill legalizing drug use for the
   gainfully employed Monday.
     Drug War Icon

   "Stockbrokers, lawyers, English professors... you're not the problem
   here," said DEA Administrator Asa Hutchinson at a White House press
   conference. "If you are paying taxes and keeping your yard tidy, we're
   not going to hassle you if you come home from a hard day of work and
   want to enjoy a little pot or blow. But if, on the other hand, you're
   one of these lazy, shiftless types hanging out on the street all day
   looking for your next high, we're coming after you."

   The new law, which goes into effect May 1, will enable police
   departments and courts to focus on what Hutchinson called "the real
   drug offenders."

   "There's no point going after some cardiac surgeon who needs some
   speed to keep him sharp," Hutchinson said. "That's not what the law
   was intended to prevent. But the more destructive drug users--the
   addict who spends his welfare money on crack, the guy in Harlem who
   smokes marijuana--that is something that we as a society must not
   tolerate."
   [4]Enlarge Image Drugs Now Legal If User Is Employed 

   According to Drug Czar John P. Walters, the legislation should have a
   beneficial effect on the health of the American people.

   "As a result of this new law, we expect use of addictive, harmful
   drugs like heroin and crack--those statistically more likely to be
   linked to unemployment--to drop," Walters said. "Meanwhile, decent
   people with good jobs can continue their responsible use of milder
   drugs like E and cocaine in peace."

   Walters said the new legislation will make it significantly easier to
   fight the drug war. The nation's courts will not be clogged with cases
   involving club kids caught with "Vitamin K" or doctors prescribing
   Vicodin to rich housewives. More money can be freed up to build
   prisons to keep chronically unemployed addicts in jail and off the
   streets--the only statistically proven method of improving an addict's
   chance of recovery.

   "Clearly, a lot of people doing drugs simply cannot handle them,"
   Walters said. "We've got to get the drugs out of the hands of these
   people, and give them back to the weekend user."

   The law, Hutchinson noted, will also help protect the nation's poor
   and unemployed, who are not as equipped to handle the effects of drug
   addiction as their more affluent counterparts.

   "Drugs are addictive, and that's true whether you're a ghetto gang
   member or a Harvard-educated entertainment lawyer," Hutchinson said.
   "But the cold, hard truth is, if the ghetto kid gets hooked, he isn't
   going to clean up in a rehab clinic in Palm Springs and maybe even
   become president, now, is he? That's why we need to protect the less
   fortunate among us with the threat of arrest and incarceration."

   The U.S. economy also stands to benefit. Initial surveys indicate that
   the threat of jail will motivate recreational drug users to seek
   employment, reducing the nation's welfare rolls.

   "Legal weed versus jail?" asked Cory Everly, 23, an unemployed Austin,
   TX, singer-songwriter. "I am so totally going down to the sub shop
   today to ask Rudy for my job back."

   Added Everly: "Rudy's my boss... at the sub shop."

   "The new American motto is 'Work Hard, Play Hard,'" Hutchinson said.
   "Do a few bumps of coke at your gay friend's party. Go to your be-in
   or your Lollapalooza rave or whatever it's called this year. But you'd
   better make it in to work on Monday, buddy, or you're going to jail."

   "Sorry if some of my comments have been a bit rambling and unfocused,"
   Hutchinson added. "I'm a little high right now."


   PHILADELPHIA--Frustrated with the Eagles' last-second 16-13 loss to
   the Green Bay Packers last Sunday, and with quarterback Donovan
   McNabb's failure to single-handedly score three touchdowns, prevent
   two of his teammates from muffing punts, or block any of Green Bay's
   field goals, thousands of Philadelphia fans demanded that McNabb win
   an NFL championship for Philadelphia sometime within the next three
   weeks.
   [4]Enlarge Image Donovan McNabb 

   "For the last time: How much longer do we have to wait for McNabb to
   get off his ass?" Eagles fan Jacob Wilkerson said of the five-time Pro
   Bowler in one of over 1,500 messages addressed to the quarterback left
   on the Eagles' voicemail Monday. "Come on McNabb, it's time to finish
   the job. We've been really lenient up to this point, but it's time to
   hunker down and throw the ball. If you think you need to take the
   whole three weeks, that's fine, but we would really like it by next
   Wednesday."

   While many football analysts agree that McNabb has done a phenomenally
   good job in a less-than-ideal situation for the last eight years,
   blaming Philadelphia's failure to advance to the Super Bowl on such
   varied areas as undisciplined offensive execution, inconsistent
   defense, excessive penalties, lackluster pass protection, and almost
   criminally bad play-calling, fans say they are tired of people making
   excuses for McNabb.

   "So what's our crybaby quarterback going to blame next, the NFL
   schedule?" fan Ed Cooke said in a call to Radio 610WIP's Howard Eskin.
   "He's the quarterback. If the team sucks, it's his fault. I think
   McNabb's lucky we're only asking for one Super Bowl in the next few
   weeks, because what he owes us is a three-peat by December."

   Although he felt McNabb performed respectably, completing 15 of 33
   passes for 184 yards with one touchdown and one interception in his
   first game back since tearing his ACL last season, Eagles head coach
   Andy Reid pointed out that his quarterback would have to put up much
   better numbers if he expected to put them in the position to win it
   all by the end of Week 4.

   "This organization expects a lot from Donovan," Reid told a group of
   angry fans Wednesday. "After all, we did use the second overall draft
   pick on him eight years ago, and while he's done really well
   considering we made him run the offense for years with bargain-
   basement wide receivers and running backs that couldn't stay healthy,
   I agree that now is the time to finally get something back on our
   investment."

   "Donovan promised us--the Eagles organization and fans alike--great
   things," said Eagles owner Jeff Lurie, who promised season ticket
   holders he would sit down with McNabb and make fans' wishes known.
   "You have all really been great through all of this. No one could ask
   for a better, more caring, more patient home crowd. The amount of
   restraint you have shown by not, say, throwing McNabb off the top deck
   of Lincoln Financial Field is nothing but admirable."

   "For my part, I can promise that on Sept. 30 I will make sure that
   Donovan has the Lombardi trophy on my desk no later than the end of
   the day," added Lurie, noting that he thought the Eagles' fans were
   the best fans in the world.

   McNabb, whose plans for this week include extra time working with his
   receivers on timing, studying his playbook, and watching film, said he
   would be working as hard as he could for the foreseeable future.

   "Eagles fans are a passionate group who love their team," said McNabb,
   "if not the actual players. It's not like winning a Super Bowl before
   the first month of the season is the hardest thing they've ever asked
   of me. That'd be all those times they asked me to go kill myself."

   "If I work hard and play my game, I'll be fine," McNabb added. "I just
   hope the fans realize that."


   TOKYO--Japanese government officials confirmed Monday that the damage
   wrought on Japan's national infrastructure by the July 16th
   earthquake--particularly on the country's protective force field,
   quantum teleportation system, zero-point fusion energy broadcasting
   grid, and psychodynamic communications network--was severe enough to
   set the technologically advanced island nation back approximately 300
   years to a primitive mid-22nd-century state of existence.

   "Japan finds itself in crisis, with our society and culture
   temporarily reverting to a pre-cyberunification era," said Japanese
   prime minister Shinzo Abe, communicating non-telekinetically for the
   first time in his nearly 150 years of post-cryogenic life. "Though
   many citizens have been limited to algorithm-based emotion detection,
   neutron baths, speed limits below the speed of light, and other
   barbaric inconveniences for over a week now, I promise we will pull
   through."
   [4]Enlarge Image Earthquake Sets Japan Back To 2147 

   Officer Hideo Shimura (left) and his cloned selves attempt to free
   quake victims trapped under rubble.

   Abe rejected persistent calls to simply reboot the damaged nation,
   saying that such a measure could result in the loss of vital data,
   such as Niigata Prefecture and sections of Mount Fuji.

   The quake, which was centered in the bluefin tuna-cloning fields near
   the northwest city of Kashiwazaki, measured bb460.c22/k, or the rough
   equivalent of 6.8 on the less sophisticated Western Richter scale. It
   resulted in the first confirmed human or human-hybrid fatality in
   Japan in over 60 years, and more than 700 injuries. Citizens'
   protective exoskeletons reportedly remained operational through the
   first wave of seismic activity and three of the four aftershocks.
   According to first responders, injured exoskeletons were hastily
   repaired with antiquated third-generation nanotechnology, while
   subatomic robots were released into the bloodstream to fix any
   irregularity they could recognize.

   "The earthquake destroyed our connection with the Trinity Flow, the
   frequency that harmonizes the...you would say, I think,
   'computer'?...with the daemonetic implants in our citizens'
   overbrains," scientist Hiroshi Ishiguro-Prime of the TechnoDiet told
   Western reporters.

   Teleportation of food and water remains at a standstill as technicians
   in Kobe continue to fix the extensive damage to the
   eight-million-yottabyte mainframe computer, a four-by-three-inch
   quantum femtoprocessor responsible for accessing and fulfilling the
   thoughts and desires of all Japanese.
   [5]Enlarge Image Quake victims 

   Quake victims wander the streets in search of synthetic water and a
   neural implant charging station.

   The United States' offer of $20 million and a shipment of steel,
   tractors, forklifts, and cranes was politely declined.

   The prime minister said that the greatest effort would be exerted on
   rebuilding the Procross Buster Quasigravitic Lensing Frame, the motive
   force behind Japan's automated network of roads, aerobuildings, and
   levitation canals. The total cost of the project, the prime minister
   speculated, is somewhere in the 70 trillion range, a majority of
   which will be underwritten by Nippon Tertius, a transubsidiary
   civilization in the Haltropic galaxy.

   Meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of people throughout Japan continue
   to live in desperate circumstances. Those whose metahabitats were
   destroyed in the quake are being issued replacements, though citizens
   are expected to grow them themselves. Kyoto resident Aiko Shunji
   criticized the homes' reconfiguring walls and blink-controlled climate
   as "relics of the past" that are "barely suitable for humans, let
   alone for members of Japan's Glorious and Peaceful Ninth Recension."

   "The older generations can talk all they want about the virtues of
   eating meals in pill form and taking the moving sidewalk instead of
   the wormhole, but this is just plain deprivation, and it sucks,"
   Shunji, 92, said. "It doesn't help that recovery efforts have been so
   slow. Why is it taking so long for officials to reconnect something as
   basic as the Neural Net?"

   Abe reassured citizens that the disaster was merely a temporary
   setback.

   "It should only be a matter of days before the Asahi Ultima Crisis
   chronotriggered reversion engine is once more online," Abe said.
   "Citizens of Japan, I promise you: Once our folded-space-time
   technology is again functional, this whole earthquake will never have
   happened."


   BOSTON--Nobel Peace Prize winner and Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel
   said in an interview Monday that he recently revisited his debut work,
   Night, nearly 50 years after its publication and was "absolutely
   horrified" at the amateurish quality of the memoir.
   [4]Enlarge Image Elie Wiesel 

   "Why didn't my editor do something?"

   Elie Wiesel, author

   "It was painful to read," Wiesel said of the story of his journey from
   his childhood home to the Nazi death camp Auschwitz. "I know every
   great author says they hate their first book, but frankly, I'm
   embarrassed this ever made it into print. The sentence structure is
   artless, the plot is repetitive at best--and the constant mentioning
   of how I felt abandoned by God? What was the point of all that?"

   Wiesel said that, although Night is not his only work that deals with
   his personal experience of the Holocaust, it is by far his "most
   humiliating."

   "I got so wrapped up in what I was writing, I couldn't separate myself
   from the subject matter," said Wiesel, adding that the eight-page
   account of the train ride from Gleiwitz to Buchenwald could have been
   trimmed down considerably to focus on the essential events. "I just
   assumed everything about my life was so fascinating, people would want
   to read about it. I was so nave."

   Wiesel went on to criticize Night for lacking the subtlety of his
   later writings, claiming the use of foreshadowing was predictable and
   the description of the harrowing gas chamber selection process felt
   "clichd...like bad daytime TV melodrama."
     Elie Wiesel Book

   "I simply seized on this 'dehumanizing people through starvation and
   fear' angle and beat it into the ground," said Wiesel, who has learned
   over the years to "show, not tell" in his writing. "Rereading it now
   is absolute hell."

   The author also spoke harshly of Night's publisher, Arthur Wang, who
   encouraged Wiesel to write the book nearly 10 years after he was
   liberated from the concentration camps. He said Wang kept pressuring
   him to publish the story, while ignoring the inherent horror in
   Wiesel's prose.

   "[Wang] didn't even have the decency to tell me my writing was
   completely self- absorbed," Wiesel said. "He should have stopped this
   book before it got out of hand. Somebody, anybody should have
   intervened before it was too late."

   Night was a recent Oprah's Book Club selection, selling more than a
   million copies in only a few months. It returned to the No. 1 spot on
   The New York Times best-seller list, introducing a whole new
   generation of readers to what Wiesel calls "shoddily written, college
   workshop garbage."

   Despite initially agreeing to the Oprah deal, Wiesel has told
   reporters he now regrets not revising the manuscript before its new
   publication.

   "I would have at least liked to put in an interesting dream sequence,
   and extend this part here where my dying father calls out my name with
   his final breath," said Wiesel, holding a heavily annotated paperback
   copy of the memoir. "I can't believe another million people are going
   to read this atrocity. We're just repeating the same terrible mistakes
   of the past."

   Added Wiesel, "God, I wish I were dead."

   Although he told interviewers his embarrassment over the memoir will
   continue to haunt him "during every waking hour," Wiesel hopes that
   those who have already read his book will "just forget the whole thing
   ever happened."


   CULVER CITY, CA--Writers of a popular prime-time CBS sitcom spent the
   last three weeks making late-stage script adjustments to work its
   female lead's recent abortion into its storyline, sources close to the
   show revealed Monday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Actress 

   Sumner with co-star Carl Hubbard.

   In the upcoming episode of Same Difference, taped late last week and
   scheduled to air in May, star Kirsten Sumner's character, Trish
   O'Connell, the sharp-tongued but beautiful wife of portly Chicago
   bread-truck driver Greg O'Connell, played by Carl Hubbard, will reveal
   to her husband she was pregnant and had an abortion without his
   knowledge. Trish's revelation comprises the secondary, or "B," story
   of the episode, in which Greg eats a meatball sandwich against his
   wife's wishes.

   "It would've been insulting to our viewers if we never addressed the
   fact that Kirsten is so obviously post-abortion," executive producer
   Aaron Karsch said. "We did consider shooting around the abortion and
   using lighting tricks and strategically placed plants to cover up her
   uterus. But everyone would have been able to tell anyhow, so we
   figured we might as well use it to the show's advantage."
   [5]Enlarge Image Producers 

   Producers Larry Krespie and Aaron Karsch dissect the anatomy of a
   sitcom.

   Sumner, who decided to terminate her pregnancy after several weeks of
   emotional deliberation, reportedly informed the show's executive
   producers about it earlier this month. Though the abortion posed a
   significant challenge for Same Difference's 12 writers, who were given
   the task of addressing it in a way that would not disrupt the show's
   lighthearted pace or contradict Sumner's on-screen persona, Karsch
   said such developments "come with the territory."

    "When you're writing a successful sitcom, sometimes the actors'
   personal lives find a way to creep on set and you just have to adapt,"
   Karsch said. "Kirsten's around that age when a lot of actresses start
   thinking about having abortions, so I guess it's not that surprising."

   After viewing the rough edits of the new scenes, Karsch said he
   "couldn't be happier" with the decision to include Sumner's abortion
   in the show, and expects the episode will be Same Difference's most
   popular since "High Definition," a 2002 episode in which Greg bought a
   big-screen TV.

   "It wasn't easy, but in the end, we got some very solid material out
   of it--the plotline stayed true to the O'Connells' relationship while
   still being entertaining," said co- executive producer Larry Krespie,
   adding that, thanks to the show's resourceful writing staff, Sumner's
   evacuated womb may be "the best thing that ever happened to Same
   Difference."

   Despite his initial skepticism about how the new abortion storyline
   would play to the female 36 to 49 demographic, Krespie was ultimately
   won over after viewing the rough edits.

   "Kirsten did some brilliant acting," said Krespie, who called Sumner's
   portrayal of a woman who had recently had an abortion "spot-on." "Our
   show does a lot of quiet, observational humor, and I think anyone
   who's had an abortion would be hard-pressed not to relate to, and get
   a chuckle out of, Trish's situation."

   Continued Krespie: "Kirsten really got into the mind of her character,
   even in the physical-comedy scenes, like when she was trying to avoid
   Greg and get out of the house to get the abortion. And later in the
   packed abortion clinic, when she mistakes the number 81 she received
   from the receptionist for 18, and finds out she has to wait much
   longer for her abortion. But it all leads to a nice, poignant ending
   when both characters realize they should have been honest with each
   other all along--Trish with her pregnancy, and Greg with his
   sandwich."


   FORT WORTH, TX--Despite having been on the job for nine months,
   RadioShack CEO Julian Day said Monday that he still has "no idea" how
   the home electronics store manages to stay open.
     RadioShack CEO

   CEO Julian Day

   "There must be some sort of business model that enables this company
   to make money, but I'll be damned if I know what it is," Day said.
   "You wouldn't think that people still buy enough strobe lights and
   extension cords to support an entire nationwide chain, but I guess
   they must, or I wouldn't have this desk to sit behind all day."

   The retail outlet boasts more than 6,000 locations in the United
   States, and is known best for its wall-sized displays of
   obscure-looking analog electronics components and its notoriously
   desperate, high-pressure sales staff. Nevertheless, it ranks as a
   Fortune 500 company, with gross revenues of over $4.5 billion and
   fiscal quarter earnings averaging tens of millions of dollars.

   "Have you even been inside of a RadioShack recently?" Day asked. "Just
   walking into the place makes you feel vaguely depressed and alienated.
   Maybe our customers are at the mall anyway and don't feel like driving
   to Best Buy? I suppose that's possible, but still, it's just...weird."
   [4]Enlarge Image RadioShack 

   A RadioShack store that somehow manages to bring in enough paying
   customers to turn a profit.

   After taking over as CEO, Day ordered a comprehensive, top-down review
   of RadioShack's administrative operations, inventory and purchasing,
   suppliers, demographics, and marketing strategies. He has also
   diligently pored over weekly budget reports, met with investors, taken
   numerous conference calls with regional managers about "circulars or
   flyers or something," and even spent hours playing with the company's
   "baffling" 200-In-One electronics kit. Yet so far none of these things
   have helped Day understand the moribund company's apparent allure.

   "Even the name 'RadioShack'--can you imagine two less appealing words
   placed next to one another?" Day said. "What is that, some kind of
   World War II terminology? Are ham radio operators still around, even?
   Aren't we in the digital age?"

   "Well, our customers are out there somewhere, and thank God they are,"
   Day added.

   One of Day's theories about RadioShack's continued solvency involves
   wedding DJs, emergency cord replacement, and off-brand wireless
   telephones. Another theory entails countless RadioShack gift cards
   that sit unredeemed in their recipients' wallets. Day has even
   conjectured that the store is "still coasting on" an enormous fortune
   made from remote-control toy cars in the mid-1970s.
     RadioShack Revenues

   Day admitted, however, that none of these theories seems particularly
   plausible.

   "I once went into a RadioShack location incognito in order to gauge
   customer service," Day said. "It was about as inviting as a visit to
   the DMV. For the life of me, I couldn't see anything I wanted to buy.
   Finally, I figured I'd pick up some Enercell AA batteries, though
   truthfully they're not appreciably cheaper than the name brands."

   "I know one thing," Day continued. "If Sony and JVC start including
   gold-tipped cable cords with their products, we're screwed."

   In the cover letter to his December 2006 report to investors, "Radio
   Shack: Still Here In The 21st Century," Day wrote that he had no
   reason to believe that the coming year would not be every bit as good
   as years past, provided that people kept on doing things much the same
   way they always had.

   Despite this cheerful boosterism, Day admitted that nothing has
   changed during his tenure and he doesn't exactly know what he can do
   to improve the chain.

   "I'd like to capitalize on the store's strong points, but I honestly
   don't know what they are," Day said. "Every location is full of
   bizarre adapters, random chargers, and old boom boxes, and some sales
   guy is constantly hovering over you. It's like walking into your
   grandpa's basement. You always expect to see something cool, but it
   never delivers."

   Added Day: "I may never know the answer. No matter how many times I
   punch the sales figures into this crappy Tandy desk calculator, it
   just doesn't add up."


   BOSTON--Now that Manny Ramirez has reported to camp and the
   spring-training opener against Minnesota is in the books, Red Sox fans
   are turning their attention to the awesome power rumored to dwell
   within much-touted off-season pitching acquisition Daisuke
   Matsuzaka--a man who many say possesses pitching powers and techniques
   beyond the comprehension of mortal fans.
   [4]Enlarge Image Red Sox Fans 

   Matsuzaka's picture from the 2007 Red Sox Media Guide.

   "Daisuke is the pitching master!" said Boston Globe baseball columnist
   Bob Ryan, hopping from one foot to the other as he described videotape
   footage of Matsuzaka's otherworldly pitching power and control
   banishing a flock of evil, conniving, left-handed-batting carp-spirits
   to the netherworld during a 2003 Seibu Lions game. "His Ultimate
   Galactic Dragon Gyroball Pitch Power Explosion breaks three feet
   inside before cutting sharply toward the dugout, where falsehood and
   cowardice are forced to shrink before it!"

   Since before Boston signed Matsuzaka to a six-year, $52 million
   contract last November, the city's baseball fans were inundated with
   incredible tales of the Japanese ace's pitching prowess, many of which
   seemed too good to be believed. Nevertheless, most Red Sox fans find
   it hard to contain their excitement at the thought of finally seeing
   Matsuzaka's skills on display.

   "Battle on, Daisuke! Wither their spirits with your mystical Four
   Winds Split-Finger Shottu-jitsu! Repel their cruel affronts with your
   Triple-Star Cut-Fastball Technique of the Joyous Uplifting Dynamo,
   clocked at a respectable 96 miles per hour! And baffle their
   comprehension and deceive in turn their deceitful hearts with your
   Two-Seam Shadow-Strike Clouded-Eye Shinobi Sinker!" said 44-year-old
   accountant and spring-training attendee Roger Fettleman, quoting the
   back of Matsuzaka's Red Sox rookie card almost word for word as he
   watched the right-hander warm up in the bullpen before his first
   Grapefruit League start. "Truly, it is within your grasp to go 16-4
   with an ERA under 4.00!"

   Fettleman is hardly alone among Boston fans in having both his spirits
   and his expectations raised to unusual levels by the seven-year
   veteran of Japan's top leagues. Besides the talk surrounding his
   alleged gyroball, rumors have circulated about his uncanny ability to
   read a batter, his cleverness in using his fastballs as his out
   pitches instead of over-relying on breaking balls, and his almost
   inexhaustible wellspring of ki, or spirit-energy.

   "If what we've heard is correct, then Matsuzaka indeed possesses a
   Power Level of well over 9,000," said ESPN's Peter Gammons, struggling
   to contain his excitement on Tuesday's edition of Baseball Tonight.
   "Over 9,000! Which, of course, is only to be expected of the
   ballplayer whom sources say descended into the Underworld to spit in
   the flaming eye of the Lord of Hell and steal the secret power of the
   Onikaze, or 'demon-storm' pitch, which tails away nicely from both
   lefties and righties."

   Despite the constant adulation and high expectations, the 27-year-old
   right-hander has been modest when dealing with the press.

   "Boston fans are the greatest fans in the world," Matsuzaka told
   reporters through an interpreter upon being asked if he had left Japan
   out of fears that his Ultimate Galactic Dragon Gyroball Pitch Power
   Explosion might split Mount Fuji, strike the rising sun from the sky,
   and awaken the wrathful atomic lizard Gojira. "I'm very happy and
   excited to be a member of the Red Sox."


   WASHINGTON--In a stunning reversal of more than 200 years of
   conventional wisdom, failure--traditionally believed to be an
   unacceptable outcome for a wide range of tasks and goals--is now
   increasingly seen as a viable alternative to success, sources
   confirmed Tuesday.

   "Americans have always been told that they should succeed at all
   costs," Emory University sociologist Dr. Lauren Hodge said. "But based
   on new evidence, this can no longer be called true--if, in fact, it
   ever was. As failure continues to dominate the American landscape,
   this mantra must be overruled."
   [4]Enlarge Image Failure Now An Option 

   "We have no choice but to revoke failure's non-optional status,
   effective immediately," Hodge continued. "Now all citizens will be
   able to step back, stare down the hardship and difficulty they will
   face in the pursuit of success, and say, 'Fuck that--this isn't worth
   it.'"

   Overturning one of America's most cherished and oft-repeated aphorisms
   is expected to have far-reaching implications for the future of human
   ambition. Some predict that a majority of the U.S. populace will now
   opt out of its previous obligation to give it 110 percent, and, in the
   coming weeks and months, give as little as 45 percent. For
   underachieving Americans, that number is expected to drop to as low as
   5 percent by March.

   A recent Interior Department report found that, although failure was
   not officially an option until this Tuesday, there have in fact been
   hundreds of billions of cases of it over the past two centuries,
   culminating in Fort Collins, CO high school junior Tim Kemp's failing
   grade on a physics exam last month.

   Many scholars now believe that such failures have historically been
   obscured by optimistic slogans and so-called positive thinking,
   neither of which, according to the report, has had a verifiable
   effect: Americans' overall failure rate went up nearly 2,350 percent
   over the past decade, with 1,435,643 instances of failure reported
   last Sunday alone.

   "In retrospect, failure becoming an option was inevitable," historian
   Michael Lambeau said. "The only difference is that now Americans can
   choose, without fear of being ostracized by society, to quit long
   before getting ahead."
   [5]Enlarge Image Failure Chart 

   Lambeau predicted a substantial decrease in the number of everyday
   Americans who fear failure, and a dramatic rise in those who actually
   embrace the once-reviled stench of defeat and disappointment.

   Other data seem to confirm the Interior Department's findings. A
   recent CBS News/New York Times poll revealed that 64 percent of
   Americans are "perfectly comfortable" with coming up just short, 43
   percent are content to try only once rather than try, try again, and
   an overwhelming 95 percent admitted that after falling down, they now
   prefer to stay down.

   Only 4 percent indicated having "some interest" in applying their
   balls to the wall.

   Though the broad new trend touches all 300 million citizens, experts
   said that sports coaches, CEOs of large corporations, U.S. Army
   commanders overseeing large-scale military operations, and anyone who
   often starts sentences with the word "gentlemen" will be most
   affected.

   While the ability to openly fail without detrimental consequence has
   been embraced by a majority of the population, some, such as social
   anthropologist Dr. Richard Groaten, claim it will have negative
   long-term effects for the country.

   "Sixty years ago, even mentioning that you might willingly give it
   less than your all would have been unthinkable," Groaten said. "It's a
   disgrace that modern Americans are more inclined to simply not get
   going, especially when the said going could be classified as 'tough.'"

   "I don't feel like doing this interview anymore," Groaten added.


   YOUNGSTOWN, OH--Jason Baumer, a fancy little gent who is apparently
   too good to enjoy a regular cup of coffee, drank a cup of tea Sunday.
   [4]Enlarge Image Fancy Man 

   The fancy man rests a placemat beneath the precious tea to protect his
   beautiful table from any errant drips.

   The 29-year-old web designer prepared and consumed his precious tea,
   which is imported from some la-di-da foreign country, at about 10:30
   a.m with the loving attention of a brittle, shawl-wearing spinster.

   "I normally have some Earl Grey in the morning," said Baumer,
   referring to a kind of tea named after a guy who used to run around
   England in a powdered wig and fruity tights. "Sometimes I have toast
   [and jam] too. Or just a bowl of cereal when I'm in a rush."

   Instead of simply heating a mug of water in the microwave, Baumer used
   a hoity-toity copper-bottomed tea kettle, which His Lordship
   reportedly purchased at Pier One Imports in 2003 for the express
   purpose of tea-making.

   Baumer's beverage is made with the use of a tea bag, a prissy little
   package of delicately scented, finely shredded leaves wrapped in a
   thin gauze and festooned with a bright yellow label tied to a string
   so that the user need not scald her tender digits in the hot water.
   Baumer, like all the other hens and dandies known to enjoy tea, must
   "steep" the drink, which is a term for gently lowering the bag into a
   teacup holding the hot water.

   On this occasion, Baumer removed the tea bag from the dainty brew and
   added one dollop of honey made by his friends the honeybees and a
   splash of milk straight from his mama's precious teat. But even with
   these additions, the tea was still too hot for Princess Jason's
   sensitive mouth, causing him to softly blow on the beverage with his
   lips pursed together like a little rosebud.

   "I like to do the crossword puzzle while I have my tea," said Baumer,
   making it easy to imagine him wearing a bonnet and a frilly pink
   dress. "Or listen to the radio."

   Our precious baby Baumer makes nearly daily use of his fragile
   porcelain teacup, which he balances between feeble thumb and
   forefinger to drink his beverage with prim sips. He often places the
   cup on a special little plate that goes with the cup.

   Baumer reportedly loves his tea so much that he knows about all the
   different kinds. He admitted to drinking a special type of tea at
   night called "chamomile," which is made out of pretty flowers.
   According to Baumer, the caffeine in regular tea robs him of his
   treasured beauty sleep if he drinks it too late in the day.

   Those close to the tea-sipper have known about Baumer's refined
   predilection for hot beverages for years, but shockingly have not
   ostracized him for it.

   "We sometimes have tea when we read the Sunday paper in bed," said
   Baumer's girlfriend, Laurel Altman, who would not comment on whether
   Baumer also stages tea parties with an assortment of dolls and teddy
   bears.

   Baumer, as wrapped up as he was in his special soothing drink for old
   maids, was nevertheless able to make it out to a local park later that
   morning in order to "enjoy the nice weather before it gets too cold."


   OTSEGO, MI--While she may not be making the nightly news or gracing
   the covers of Time and Newsweek, 46-year-old nursing-home worker
   Barbara Louise Huxley is a dedicated, ruthless killer. But in today's
   male-dominated world of remorseless slaughter, Huxley has been forced
   to murder twice as many innocent victims just to gain the public
   exposure and foster the widespread panic her male counterparts
   routinely enjoy.
   [4]Enlarge Image Female Serial Killer Has To Work Twice As Hard To
   Achieve Notoriety 

   Huxley in the nursing home where her hard work and horrifying murders
   have gone unrecognized for years.

   Huxley, who smothered her first elderly patient at the ambitious age
   of 27, got into murder at a time when a woman slowly draining the life
   from a fellow human being was almost unthinkable. Seven more slow and
   methodical choking deaths followed, and though her heartless crimes
   were frequently passed over by local newspapers and her male
   supervisors at the nursing home, Huxley was determined to prove that
   she could be just as brutal and unfeeling as serial killers of the
   opposite sex.

   Today, almost 20 years and countless cold-blooded slayings later,
   Huxley continues to take the lives of others in silence--simply
   because of her gender.

   "After spending so long watching deranged men climb straight to the
   top of the FBI's Most Wanted list, it was hard to get up the energy to
   go into work every day and suffocate another frail diabetic," said
   Huxley, who claims her ability to take human lives without the
   slightest emotional response has gone overlooked by the chauvinistic
   news media and biased higher courts time and time again. "I started to
   think, 'What's the point? What am I doing here?'"

   Added Huxley: "I just want to be treated like any other homicidal
   sociopath."

   Like many young women who simply want the chance to kill as many
   victims as possible before being apprehended by the police, Huxley has
   faced fierce resistance at every turn, whether from police officials,
   eyewitnesses, or often, her own flailing victims.

   "There's nothing more upsetting than strangling someone with surgical
   tubing, only to have them look at you in shock and disbelief," Huxley
   said. "It's like, 'Why are you so surprised? Is it because I'm a
   woman?!'"

   According to Huxley, of the 11 murderers given serial-killer
   distinction in the five years before her arrest, only one was
   female--a woman who was eventually dismissed by a male judge as "not
   possessing the mental facilities required to understand the charges
   against her."

   In addition, the few women who have been granted the distinction have
   received, on average, fewer than seven years of jail time for every 10
   years offered to male serial killers with equivalent body counts.

   Dr. Nancy Trisher, a criminal psychologist at the University of
   Pennsylvania, attributes much of the gender divide to societal
   perceptions of female murderers.

   "People are still uncomfortable with, and often feel threatened by,
   the idea of a woman slitting open a stranger's throat and watching him
   drown in his own blood," Trisher wrote in her most recent book,
   Shattering the Blood-Spattered Glass Ceiling. "Many individuals,
   especially men, consider women too emotional or too passive, and
   assume they are happier drowning their own children at home than going
   out to decapitate vagrants and college students."

   In the meantime, Huxley and a half a dozen other women like her must
   continue to burn and mutilate their victims without the media and
   law-enforcement attention their gruesome acts rightfully deserve.

   "Even when the news finally gets around to reporting on us, it's only
   to talk about how 'rare' it is to see women do the awful things we
   do," Huxley said. "It's never because we're just good murderers."

   As she patiently waits for the long-delayed public outcry over her
   unspeakable crimes, Huxley can only hope she will soon secure the kind
   of lasting infamy already enjoyed by such men as Jeffrey Dahmer,
   Charles Manson, and Dennis Rader. An inspiration to every young girl
   with no regard for life, Huxley dreams of a day when society looks at
   her and sees not just a woman, but a bloodthirsty monster.

   Isiah Thomas

   NEW YORK--A meeting held at Madison Square Garden Wednesday between
   New York Knicks ownership and head coach Isiah Thomas was interrupted
   more than half a dozen times by "Fire Isiah" chants which came at
   various points throughout the two-hour-long discussion, Knicks
   officials reported.

   The mocking chants--which sources speculate were inspired by Thomas'
   conviction for sexual harassment, his lax punishment of guard Stephon
   Marbury for abandoning the team last week, and the consistent failure
   of an overpaid roster that Thomas himself is responsible for
   recruiting--could be overheard from outside the boardroom's entrance,
   and were regularly followed by five claps: two slower ones followed by
   three in rapid succession.

   "Fire I-si-ah!" board members shouted in unison as Thomas reportedly
   tried to explain that his team was, in fact, making incremental but
   tangible progress. "Fire I-si-ah!"

   According to Madison Square Garden L.P.'s Vice Chairman Hank Ratner,
   the meeting started on an icy note when administrative assistant
   Sheryl Jones opened the conference room doors and announced Thomas'
   name, inspiring the entire room to erupt into a chorus of loud boos
   that lasted for nearly one minute.

   Ratner said the boos were immediately followed by what was in fact the
   second "Fire Isiah" chant, the first of which began when Thomas called
   to inform the Knicks front office that he would be five minutes late
   for the meeting.

   "If you would have asked me four years ago if Isiah Thomas would be
   booed mercilessly every time he took the floor in his home office, I
   would have said you were nuts," Knicks primary owner James Dolan said.
   "Now? I wouldn't be shocked if this happens every work day."

   Even when the chants subsided, Dolan said, Thomas still experienced
   other forms of hostility from all 15 board members in attendance,
   including multiple rounds of sarcastic clapping when Thomas talked
   optimistically about his team's four wins, several thrown C-cell
   batteries that narrowly missed Thomas' head, and intermittent shouts
   of "You suck," "My 5-year-old daughter could do a better coaching
   job," and "Die."

   Ratner stated that, as Thomas continued to speak concerning the
   Knicks' chances to secure one of the eight playoff spots in the NBA's
   Eastern Conference, many at the meeting used the "thunder sticks" they
   received for free at the offices' front entrance in an apparent
   attempt to distract Thomas from his train of thought.

   In addition, when Thomas defended his coaching strategy and failed to
   offer any suggestions as to how he could immediately make the Knicks a
   better basketball team, frustrated board members began a
   30-second-long "asshole" chant.

   Those board members too upset and flabbergasted to shout any
   obscenities reportedly buried their faces in their hands, slouched
   back in their leather chairs, sighed, and repeated "God, we suck" in
   defeated tones.

   Though Thomas' expression remained stoic throughout the meeting, New
   York Rangers general manager Glen Sather said Thomas appeared slightly
   fazed when the president of MSG Sports Steve Mills walked in carrying
   an Isiah Thomas effigy he made at home prior to the meeting.

   "[The effigy] had a noose tied around its neck," said Sather, adding
   that the doll was dressed in a white collared shirt that had "Devil"
   written across its chest. "You could tell that Isiah saw it out of the
   corner of his eye, and when Steve hung it from the office ceiling,
   Isiah's voice briefly cracked. But, he managed to keep it together,
   telling us that all the team needed was a little more time to gel, and
   that the players hadn't been given a chance to get into a real rhythm
   yet."

   "That's the type of cool you need to be a successful coach in New
   York," Sather said. "I mean, you'd think so, anyway. Right?"

   When the meeting ultimately let out, Thomas experienced further
   harassment from upper management during the post-meeting press
   conference.

   "This comes with the territory of being a part of a professional
   sports team in New York City," Thomas said as Dolan, who was
   reportedly drunk during the entire second half of the meeting, exposed
   his backside to the coach and all media present. "You just have to
   block it all out."

   Dolan later apologized to Thomas for his childish actions and assured
   him his job was safe.


   DEARBORN, MI--Still reeling from a $12.6 billion loss last year and a
   steadily declining customer base, the Ford Motor Company announced
   plans Monday to invest its entire third- and fourth-quarter
   manufacturing and advertising budgets into reintroducing the Model T,
   one of history's best known and most innovative car models.
   [4]Enlarge Image Ford Model T 

   A Ford spokesman poses with the once-revolutionary automobile in a
   Michigan showroom.

   "Today's drivers want to get in touch with the experience of sitting
   behind the wheel of a finely crafted, planetary-gear vehicle with
   manual crank shafts," said Ford's president and CEO Alan Mulally, who
   expects the first line of Model Ts to be available for sale by
   mid-December and safe for driving as soon as it is neither snowing nor
   raining. "We're getting back to the basics, bringing the quality and
   elegance of 1908 into the 21st century. We want to show the country
   why, at one point, every single car driven in America was a Ford."

   Although market analysts have for months predicted that the struggling
   company would sell off its less successful subsidiaries and expand
   into hybrid cars in order to remain economically viable, the
   Michigan-based auto producer decided instead to open 12 new factories
   and retrofit another seven at a cost of more than $100 million in
   order to produce parts such as the oil-lamp headlights and wooden
   artillery wheels for the two-speed Model T.

   While Mulally admits that the initial cost of producing the so-called
   "Tin Lizzies" will be an enormous investment, the company will save
   millions of dollars by paying workers on the man-powered assembly
   lines--once considered a revolutionary breakthrough--wages at 1911
   rates. Working in back-to-back 10-hour shifts, employees should be
   capable of producing 20 to 25 units per week, meaning the 32,000 Model
   Ts that Mulally believes will lift the company out of near bankruptcy
   will be on the road within six years.
   [5]Enlarge Image Model T Jump 

   "Frankly, I think we've gotten so concerned with adding frills like
   GPS navigational systems, seat belts, and exhaust pipes that we've
   forgotten what really matters: open-air bench seating," Mulally said.
   "We promise that each Model T that comes off the line will last much,
   much longer than today's cars. Face it, we just don't make them like
   we used to."

   Though the company planned to make the announcement this spring, it
   was delayed after a number of parts could not be secured from their
   original, early-20th-century suppliers--many of which, after two world
   wars and one major economic depression, no longer exist. Throughout
   the process, Mulally personally spent two hours on the phone trying to
   track down rubber from the Belgian Congo, and sent top executives all
   the way to Mandalay to find a company that still produces magneto
   generator parts.

   But despite the Model T's need for coil boxes, crank ratchets, and
   spring shackles that cost nearly five times as much as today's
   standard auto components, Ford executives are hopeful that a
   combination of the automobiles' "interchangeable parts" design and low
   $950 sticker price will propel the company back to the success it
   enjoyed a century ago.  In an effort to convince the American consumer
   that automobiles are "not just for the scion sons of wealthy robber
   barons anymore," Ford will unveil a massive advertising blitz this
   fall, including a series of black-and-white ads, short news strips
   shown between double features at the nation's leading silent-film
   houses, and so-called "barkers" who will shout the Model T's praises
   through megaphones on street corners across the country.

   "Everyone from schoolchildren to quiz-show participants has been
   hearing the name 'Model T' for almost a century now," Ford marketing
   director Patricia Curtis said. "You can't buy that kind of name
   recognition."

   To compete with the Model T, several other major auto manufacturers
   have begun reproducing their own classic car lines, including
   Chrysler's DeSoto, Karl Benz's original Motorwagen, and BMW's World
   War II-era German U-boat.


   NEW YORK--Troy Bartell, 22, former editor-in-chief of Boston
   University's student newspaper The Daily Free Press, said Monday that
   his once-prestigious paper is in "free-fall," and is now printing only
   "ridiculous, brutally incompetent shit."

   "This is lousy, lousy journalism," said Bartell, who still scours the
   paper's online edition for typos despite graduating in May 2006. "The
   way they covered the School of Management's Casino Night this year was
   a slap in the face. Complete and utter fluff. Don't tell me what the
   people were wearing, damn it--tell me who won the raffle at the end of
   the night, and what the prizes were."
   [4]Enlarge Image Former Editor 

   Bartell reads some bullshit about the new DVD players in the College
   of Communication.

   "You can tell that the new people onboard just don't give a shit, and
   believe me, that sort of thing starts at the top," Bartell continued.

   Bartell, a journalism major who was promoted to editor-in-chief  in
   January 2005 after one year as Campus Affairs editor, now works as a
   part-time receptionist for a Manhattan public-relations firm. Bartell
   had a distinguished career at the Free Press, breaking the news of the
   appointment of a new English Department chairman in 2004, and writing
   a three-part series on the revamped trash-can design in the student
   union.

   Believing that his tenure "set a strong, rigorous example for quality
   news writing," Bartell, who often travels back to Boston to attend
   college parties thrown by members of his old newspaper, is saddened
   that none of the staff has followed his example. Everything in the
   paper, he claims, from the coverage of the school's annual Activities
   Expo to the campus radio station-sponsored date auction, has been
   "complete bullshit."

    "Without fail, every time I look at the Free Press, I just cringe
   with embarrassment," Bartell said. "Their reporting is so lax, they
   might as well print propaganda straight from the BU president's
   office. Oh Christ, don't give them any ideas, Bartell."

   Bartell was particularly critical of the coverage of the School of
   Engineering's "Welcome Back" Barbecue in September, saying that none
   of the hard-hitting questions were asked, such as whether vegetarian
   alternatives were available.

   Bartell's fears of a decline in journalistic integrity were further
   augmented by a profile of the new dining-services director, which
   failed to include information about the recent increase in meal-plan
   fees and the new two-pieces-of-fruit-per-student policy.

   "[New Editor-In-Chief] Casey [Aclin] has been a real disappointment,"
   Bartell said. "In a story last Monday, instead of saying 'Dean of
   Students Charles Baker,' it just said 'Dean Baker.' That's a blatant
   disregard of Free Press style rules that never would have flown on my
   watch."

   "Never," he continued.

   But the lowest point, Bartell said, came in December during the
   Student Union Assembly elections.

    "I still have a lot of sources at the school--a lot," Bartell said.
   "From Day One of that fraudulent campaign, more than half of the
   candidates had been illegally leafletting the student union, which
   could result in fines. And what did my paper do with that bombshell?
   One graph in one story, no more. Talk about burying the lede. Where's
   the drive, the curiosity here?"

   The former editor-in-chief has repeatedly volunteered to return to the
   Free Press offices and educate the staff on proper news-writing and
   copyediting techniques, but no one has yet taken him up on his offers.

   Bartell said he's concerned for the future of the publication that he
   described as "a labor of love that sustained me through my college
   years."

   "At this rate, I wouldn't be surprised if the entire student body
   began ignoring the news content all together, and only picked up the
   Free Press to do the crossword puzzle," Bartell said.


   BOSTON--Moments after the New York Yankees continued a month-long
   stretch that has seen them climb from the bottom of the AL East to
   pull within a once unfathomable four games of the first-place Red Sox
   by defeating the Baltimore Orioles Monday night, stunned and enraged
   baseball fans across America took a moment to shake their heads in
   disbelief and curse dejectedly at the relentless inevitability of
   Yankee glory.
   [4]Enlarge Image Fucking Yankees 

   "Fucking Yankees," said Marshfield, MA resident and longtime Red Sox
   fan Lawrence Broberg, echoing the sentiments of thousands of men and
   woman across the nation. "Every year. Every goddamn year."

   The Yankees, coming off a decisive three-game sweep of the
   Central-leading Indians, have won nine out of their last 10 games,
   catapulting them to the top of the wild-card standings, restoring the
   team's infuriating confidence, and instilling a sinking sense of
   impending misery among all non-Yankee fans.

   "It's like they can't lose," said Connecticut resident Gerry DiCenzo,
   who could only watch helplessly as the Yankees overcame a late Orioles
   rally to win their fourth straight. "They literally cannot lose.
   Suddenly no one can beat the Yankees. The Red Sox suck. The Orioles
   suck. Everyone sucks. Everyone suddenly sucks when they play the
   Yankees."

   "Unbelievable," DiCenzo added. "Un-fucking-believable."

   Sparked by the recent returns of phenom starter Phil Hughes and
   slugger Jason Giambi, the Yankees have their full roster healthy and
   together for the first time since April, which fans around the world
   have solemnly realized is perfect timing for the stretch run.

   "It seems like every time the [sports] ticker comes up, they're
   winning 10-1," said Chicago resident Jeremy Killian. "You knew this
   was going to happen. You knew. Right when they got Clemens back, you
   fucking knew."

   "Every time," Killian continued. "Every time with this fucking team.
   It's the same damn thing every time. You just, they never go away. You
   can't give them an inch. You cannot give them one inch."

   "And Jeter..." Killian added, watching as the Yankee shortstop drove
   home the winning run in the bottom of the ninth with a softly tapped
   ball that barely dribbled past the pitcher's mound. "Fucking Jeter."

   As the Yankees remain hot in August, the team continues to rely on GM
   Brian Cashman's strategy of stockpiling cheap, young pitching and
   assembling a group of talented role players to surround the team's
   superstars. In recent weeks, rookie reliever Joba Chamberlain and
   newly acquired utility man Wilson Betemit have stepped up and
   delivered in clutch situations, much to the frustration of nearly
   everyone.

   "You got fucking Abreu all of a sudden going 3 for 4 every night,"
   Boston citizen Mark Baker said of the Yankees' recent surge. "Fucking
   Giambi's back. A-Rod's hitting 500 fucking home runs a night. Posada,
   that bastard. You got Matsui, who's a Red Sox killer. Then there's
   Shelley Duncan, who no one even heard of till three weeks ago. Guy
   never hit a home run in his life, he puts on pinstripes and suddenly
   he's Babe fucking Ruth."

   "And this Melky Cabrera guy," Baker added. "Where did this fucking guy
   come from? Him and Cano. They got guys coming out of the fucking
   woodwork."

   "Fucking Yankee fans must be loving this," said New York resident and
   avid Mets fan Dave Julian, muting the Yankee broadcast to temporarily
   silence the grating sound of Yankee cheers. "The smug fucks. And those
   Yankee announcers. Why don't they root a little harder? They make me
   sick. Michael Kay. Bet Steinbrenner's laughing it up. Bought himself
   another fucking championship."

   Although the Yankees' schedule becomes tougher in the coming month,
   with multiple series against the Tigers, Angels, Red Sox, and
   Mariners, most baseball fans have resigned themselves to the fact that
   the season is "pretty much fucking over."

   "What the fuck can you do?" said Detroit citizen Terry Grey. "Every
   call. The Yankees get every break, the bounces all go their way. It's
   luck. They're lucky. They're so fucking lucky."

   "Stupid," Grey added. "It's all stupid. Why play the whole fucking
   season if this is what's always going to happen?"

   Despite the mixture of anger, resentment, and disbelief that has
   surfaced across the country during the Yankees' recent hot streak,
   most fans have been able to take some solace in the fact that the
   Yankees will be eliminated by the Angels in the first round of the
   playoffs.


   WASHINGTON, DC--Gen. Tommy Franks, commander of American forces in the
   wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, announced plans Monday to step down as
   U.S. Central Command chief to focus on solo bombing projects.

   [4]Enlarge Image Gen Tommy Franks Quits Army 

   Gen. Franks tells reporters, "It's time for me to see what I can
   destroy on my own."

   "The years I've spent with the Army have been amazing, and we did some
   fantastic bombing," said Franks at a Pentagon press conference. "But
   at this point, I feel like I've taken it as far as I can. It's time
   for me to move on and see what I can destroy on my own."

   Franks said he is eager to seek out new challenges.

   "Obviously, the U.S. Army is a first-rate organization," Franks said.
   "I mean, when we were on, no one could touch us. The '91 Gulf tour,
   the '95 Bosnia campaign... we kicked some serious ass. But it's
   precisely because I love it so much that I want to leave before it
   starts to get stale."

   Franks said he also relishes the notion of having more creative
   freedom.

   "When you're in an army, you pretty much have to bomb the countries
   they tell you to bomb," Franks said. "Which is fine for a while. But
   eventually, you get tired of bombing the same old places again and
   again. The last thing I want is to be 70 years old, still bombing
   Iraq. It's important to keep things fresh."

   Asked to comment on rumors that he plans to launch a tour of the Far
   East, Franks said he will announce his first solo tour of duty later
   this month. He did mention, however, that he has "always wanted to
   bomb China," but that his work with the U.S. Army afforded him little
   time to do so.

   Elaborating on his dissatisfaction with the Army, Franks said that the
   vast scale of U.S. military operations, while exciting at first,
   eventually became a turn-off.

   "It just got to be so big," Franks said. "You had these massive
   campaigns, with soldiers and generals and tech crews and medical
   staffs and reporters and maintenance engineers and all these other
   people. It was such an elaborate production. I guess I just felt like,
   somewhere along the way, we got away from what it was all about. We
   forgot the thing we all got into it for in the first place: the
   killing."

   Franks said he is eager to strip down the warmaking experience to its
   purest essence.

   [5]Enlarge Image Gen Tommy Franks Quits Army jump 

   Franks rocks Baghdad during the recent Operation Iraqi Freedom tour.

   "I'd really like to get back to my roots," Franks said. "It's exciting
   to put on a big show with M1 Abrams tanks, Bradley fighting vehicles,
   and AH-64 Apache attack helicopters, but I got my first combat
   experience as an artillery officer in Vietnam. Part of me really
   misses being out there in the swamps, just one man and a howitzer."

   "My years with the military have been the best of my life," Franks
   continued. "But when you're at the head of a group, you're always
   considering the entire unit's best interests. Even though you're the
   leader, it can be very stifling. If you get the urge to bomb India or
   Brazil, you can't just go off and do it."

   While he was under contract with the U.S. government, Franks
   occasionally expressed displeasure over having to seek approval from
   the president and Congress for nearly every action he performed.

   "If I want to send a division of jet fighters to Iran, you'd think,
   after all the years I've been doing this, that I could simply make
   that decision," Franks told reporters during a CentCom press briefing
   in February. "But it's not like that."

   In spite of Franks' claim that the decision to leave the army was his,
   some military insiders suspect otherwise.

   "Franks says he quit, but I think that's bullshit," said CNN Pentagon
   correspondent James Washburn. "He got kicked out. Why else would he be
   leaving the best military in the entire world right after their
   triumphant Middle East tour?"

   Franks' relationships with certain key Bush Administration figures
   were "less than perfect," Washburn said.

   "You always got the feeling that [Donald] Rumsfeld and Franks never
   really got along when the cameras were off," Washburn said. "Franks
   always felt like he was in the shadow of Norman Schwarzkopf, the far
   more charismatic general who commanded U.S. forces in the 1991 Gulf
   War."

   Like Franks, Schwarzkopf left the army with plans to pursue a solo
   career, though a lackluster raid on a Japanese fishing village and a
   poorly received attack on the Dominican Republic led to the
   cancellation of a number of solo bombing dates in the Balkans.

   "Schwarzkopf influenced me greatly," Franks said. "I would be honored
   to work with him in the future, should he care to collaborate with me
   outside of the confines of the U.S. Army."

   Though Franks said he is "excited and energized" by his future
   prospects as a solo artist, disappointed fans say the U.S. Army will
   not be the same without him.

   "He wasn't flashy, but he was the backbone of that group," said Marty
   Nevins of Valdosta, GA. "No one will ever forget that moment when he
   decided to launch a massive ground assault on Baghdad rather than
   engage in a prolonged air campaign. That's just good old-fashioned,
   meat-and-potatoes invading. None of this fancy shock-and-awe shit.
   They can bring in somebody else, but I don't think that group's gonna
   be the same with a new frontman."


   WASHINGTON, DC--In a nationally televised address reminiscent of
   President Kennedy's historic 1961 speech pledging to put a man on the
   moon, President Bush responded to the global warming crisis Monday by
   calling for the construction of a giant national air conditioner by
   the year 2015.
   [4]Enlarge Image National Air Conditioner 

   Concept art shows how the 800-mile-wide device would function on a
   "high cool" setting.

   "Climate change is real and it demands a real solution," Bush said.
   "Therefore, I am committed to dedicating all of the technology, all of
   the brainpower, and all of the resources we need in order to keep
   America cool and comfortable well into the 21st century."

   The National Air Conditioner Initiative is expected to be the largest
   public works project in the nation's history. Because technology
   capable of creating an air conditioner that can fulfill the cooling
   needs of a continental land mass does not presently exist, the
   president estimated that research and development alone will require
   at least $100 trillion in both federal and private sector funds.

   "The challenge of building an air conditioner for all Americans will
   be the greatest we have ever faced," Bush said. "But we must face it.
   We must act now to ensure that our children and our children's
   children can live in a world where they don't get sweaty and have to
   change their shirts all the time."
     Bush

   'We have a responsibility to future generations.'

   President Bush

   While Bush's speech left many questions unanswered, such as whether
   the one-touch cooling settings would be under federal or state
   jurisdiction, reaction from congressional Democrats and Republicans
   has been largely favorable.

   "I applaud the administration for finally taking this issue
   seriously," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said. "Such a giant apparatus
   means that Americans from all walks of life, not just the wealthy and
   privileged, will be able to get relief from the rise in the Earth's
   surface temperature. And it will create a great many jobs. Just
   removing and rinsing out the huge filter will require tens of
   thousands of seasonal laborers."

   Petrochemical industry leaders voiced early support of the plan, which
   would stimulate additional exploration and production of oil and gas
   to satisfy the machine's staggering energy needs.

   Some fiscal conservatives, however, decry the cost of the project and
   the gargantuan electric bills that would result, saying that a series
   of mile-high oscillating fans stationed in the Pacific Northwest and
   blowing in the direction of the jet stream would accomplish
   essentially the same thing and save billions. Conservative commentator
   Pat Buchanan expressed his concern that illegal aliens would benefit
   unfairly from the air conditioner, since many of them work outside,
   and questioned President Bush's ability to "seal the nation's borders
   in order to keep the cool air in."

   Environmental groups like the Sierra Club have taken a tough stance on
   the president's plan, demanding it contain legally binding language
   that ensures the air conditioner will be switched to a special
   energy-conserving "sleep" setting when the country cools off at night.
   The White House has shown interest in an "economy mode" option that
   could be used in the event of a budgetary crisis, but it is still
   unknown whether such a massive unit would qualify for an Energy Star
   certification, let alone accommodate built-in money-saving features.

   The strongest opposition to the plan has come from Canada. Because the
   proposed National Air Conditioner would cover 90 percent of the state
   of North Dakota and face south, the U.S.'s northern neighbor would be
   directly in the path of superheated air expelled from the machine's
   back vents. Though Prime Minister Stephen Harper said this would
   create drought conditions and devastate their farmlands, most believe
   Canada lacks the clout to halt Bush's air-conditioning agenda.

   American air conditioner manufacturers, with whom President Bush
   reportedly consulted extensively prior to announcing the initiative,
   will soon be awarded tens of trillions of dollars to design and build
   the components necessary for the giant unit. Industry leader Lennox is
   expected to receive at least $30 trillion, including a massive
   installation fee, while  the Carrier Corporation, Trane, and Amana are
   all jockeying for the next largest contracts.

   "Global warming threatens us all, whether we're mowing our lawns,
   rafting down a river in a national park, or driving to the end of the
   driveway to get our mail," Bush said. "The task that lies ahead is
   undeniably hard. But if we do not succeed, we will be profoundly
   inconvenienced. And I promise you: America will not let that happen."

   Speaking at a Democratic National Committee fundraiser Monday night,
   Al Gore said that now that Bush has taken up the cause of global
   warming, the former vice president and environmental activist will
   redirect his energies toward developing a personal spacecraft capable
   of transporting a family of four to a distant planet.


   TEMPE, AZ--Calling his pet "a  completely different gerbil" than the
   one he brought home from the store, Doug Kerlin, 34, told reporters
   Tuesday that he fears the small mammal is growing increasingly
   distant.
   [4]Enlarge Image Doug Kerlin 

   Kerlin, 34, and Blinkers, 0.5, sometimes go days without making eye
   contact.

   "When I first got Blinkers, it was like we had this amazing
   connection," said Kerlin, who aside from his gerbil lives by himself
   in a one-bedroom apartment. "But lately it's almost as if he cares
   more about burrowing in his wood chips than he does about me."

   Despite recent attempts by Kerlin to bridge the ever-growing void
   between himself and the withdrawn rodent--primarily by placing several
   new wooden ramps and ladders inside Blinkers' 15-gallon aquarium--as
   of press time the gerbil had refused to emerge from his nesting box.

   "I don't know what to do," said Kerlin, who claimed the gerbil barely
   acknowledges his presence when he comes home from work. "Sometimes
   it's like he doesn't even recognize me."

   According to Kerlin, the eight-inch, 2.3-ounce Mongolian gerbil's
   aloof behavior started when the junior accountant noticed that
   Blinkers would avoid looking at him every time he stared into the
   rodent's cage. The emotional detachment only became more apparent,
   Kerlin said, when Blinkers started making rhythmic thumping sounds
   with his hind legs every time Kerlin would reach into the glass
   enclosure to hold the gerbil.

   "I was concerned," said Kerlin, who purchased the pet on a whim when
   he was walking through a shopping mall last Saturday night. "But the
   veterinarian told me that there was nothing medically wrong with
   Blinkers. That's when I knew it was me."

   Though Kerlin has tried to personally engage his despondent gerbil by
   giving him more dust baths and leaving a cleaned-out coconut shell on
   the aquarium floor, Blinkers became even more cold and unfeeling with
   every conciliatory gesture, opting to ignore his owner for hours at a
   time by roaming around his multicolored climbing tunnel.

   "Sometimes I come downstairs in the middle of the night to get a
   snack, and I hear him running on the exercise wheel and rustling
   around in his cage," Kerlin said. "But as soon as I turn on the light,
   he suddenly stops and waits for me to leave the kitchen."

   Kerlin said the last real emotional response he received from the
   gerbil was several nights ago when he left a toilet paper tube in the
   aquarium for Blinkers to play with.

   "The next morning it was completely destroyed," Kerlin said.

   Searching for some kind of reason to justify his gerbil's callous
   behavior, Kerlin admitted that he probably doesn't clean out the
   rodent's dwelling as often as he could. He still contends, however,
   that he has never done anything physically harmful to Blinkers that
   would warrant such a coldhearted response from the rodent.

   "I never once picked him up by his tail, and always made sure his
   sipper bottle was full of fresh water," Kerlin said. "Also, I used to
   give him lettuce or seeds as an occasional treat. How dare he act like
   I'm a complete stranger?"

   "I didn't buy a gerbil to be treated like this," he said.

   Following a last-ditch attempt to win over his pet's appreciation by
   introducing a companion gerbil, an idea that reportedly backfired
   completely, Kerlin flatly stated that Blinkers has distanced himself
   to a point where the once-loyal pet is mentally and emotionally
   "gone," and a "mere shell of the gerbil he once was."

   Still, Kerlin said he would always remember the good times.

   "I remember when I used to come home and watch Blinkers chew through
   old cardboard, squeaky toys, file folders, wood chips, plastic tubing,
   Kleenex boxes, Styrofoam cups--anything he could get into his mouth,
   really," Kerlin said. "He just loved to chew. He still does, but it's
   just different now, you know?"

   Added Kerlin: "I probably should have gotten a hamster instead."

   Giants

   NEW YORK--As they come closer to their Super Bowl clash with the
   formidable Patriots--the team they nearly defeated in late
   December--the Giants are confident that they can come close to beating
   the undefeated AFC champions on football's biggest stage.

   "This team has already tasted victory against the Patriots," head
   coach Tom Coughlin said Monday. "By which I mean we were so close to
   victory that we could taste it. True, we did not actually experience
   that victory, but we came as close to beating them as anyone else has
   this season. That's the kind of team we believe we are, and I think
   the Super Bowl will prove that."

   Couglin and his assistant coaches have been painstakingly breaking
   down game films from their Week 17 meeting with New England, analyzing
   every vital, near-victorious second for anything that might help them
   come that tantalizingly close to winning for the second time in as
   many months. They acknowledge that the Patriots are very good indeed,
   but the Giants believe they can draw on the experience of that
   near-victory, the confidence they discovered in barely losing to
   undefeated New England, and the lessons learned in forcing Bill
   Belichick's juggernaut to come from 12 points behind and beat them in
   the final minutes.

   "This team really believes they can come close to winning the Super
   Bowl--very, very close," Giants quarterback Eli Manning said Tuesday
   after spending the morning watching film of his Dec. 29 home loss,
   film that laid bare the crucial interception he threw to Pats corner
   Ellis Hobbs. "We can come so close to beating them, so very,
   heartbreakingly close, that every player here will take it to their
   graves."

   "This will be one to tell my kids about, that's for sure," Michael
   Strahan said. "If we can pull it off and almost beat these guys,
   they'll be showing those highlights until the end of time. When I die
   and come before those Pearly Gates, St. Peter himself will look down
   at me and say 'So, Michael, what was it like to be an eyelash away
   from winning that Super Bowl against those Patriots?' And Heaven
   itself will hold its breath while I tell them how we almost did it."

   Meanwhile, in Foxborough, the Patriots are being careful not to give
   the Giants any bulletin-board material.

   "Yeah, they good, they good," wideout Randy Moss said when told of the
   Giants attitude. "They got a good team. I guess we can't get too upset
   if they think they can nearly pull it off. Plus, hey, you got to
   admit, it ain't bragging if it's true. And they did nearly almost come
   close to practically beating us, come to think of it."

   "Didn't, though," Moss added. "18 and oh, baby!"

   Still, the Giants refuse to be completely intimidated.

   "We stood up to them once, hit 'em in the mouth, and made them beat
   us," Coughlin said, noting that in the previous meeting, the Giants
   defense put the Patriots in the challenging position of having to
   score three times over the last 20 minutes of the game, which the
   Patriots naturally did with time to spare and without apparent effort.
   "And mark my words, that's what we're going to do in the Super
   Bowl--meet their strengths with ours, play as hard and as fast as we
   can, and force them to eventually beat us."

   "Oh, crap," Coughlin added. "Crap. We're going to lose the Super
   Bowl."

   Craig Kilborn

   BRISTOL, CT--Craig Kilborn, the former host of The Late Late Show With
   Craig Kilborn, actor from the film The Benchwarmers, and SportsCenter
   anchor from 1993 to 1997, was spotted at 5:30 a.m. this morning broke,
   homeless, and passed out in front of ESPN's SportsCenter studios.

   According to ESPN sources, Kilborn appeared even thinner and more
   frail than usual, reeked of cigarette smoke and gin, and his
   clothes--a moth-eaten dark suit that may have been the same one he
   wore in his last-ever SportsCenter appearance--were in tatters.
   Kilborn was reportedly only wearing one shoe at the time of his
   discovery.

   Onlookers stated that, upon being woken up from his drunken stupor,
   the still-inebriated Kilborn asked to be shown to his "regular
   dressing room." The gangly, 6'5" former anchor then eluded security
   for long enough to stumble down the studio halls and blurt out random
   catchphrases from his broadcasting days at SportsCenter, including but
   not limited to "Gettin' giddy in the zone," "If it feels good, do it,"
   and "The low angle spank!"

   "Craiggers is back, people," said Kilborn, whose signature gelled
   blond hair was described in a later police report as dank and
   lice-ridden. "Nothing to be afraid of, folks. This is just Kilby
   simply being Kilby. Release. Rotation. Splash."

   Kilborn then regurgitated in a nearby garbage can.

   "Da da da--Da da da," an increasingly aggressive Kilborn audibly
   hummed in a mocking tone, mimicking  the final six notes of
   SportsCenter's theme song while still hovering over the trash
   receptacle. "I'm Craig Kilborn. He's Dan Patrick. Welcome to the
   feel-good edition of SportsCenter. Unless you're me, and you feel like
   complete shit because your whole life is nothing but a goddamn joke."

   "Jumanji!" he added, scaring a nearby production assistant.

   Kilborn, who had moved to Los Angeles before apparently going
   bankrupt, losing his home, and becoming a vagrant, would not comment
   as to how he ended up in Bristol, CT, but police sources said they
   later found a Mercedes registered to Kilborn's older sister broken
   down on the side of nearby I-95. The vehicle had clearly been lived in
   for weeks, possibly even months.

   "Craig looked, sounded, and smelled awful," said former colleague
   Kenny Mayne, who spent half an hour attempting to talk Kilborn out of
   his makeup chair. "But then again, as a broke, homeless man, that's
   his job."

   Though Kilborn did not harm anyone and was treated with respect by
   current employees during his unannounced visit to his former employer,
   his mood shifted noticeably when he saw a framed picture of former
   ESPN anchor Keith Olbermann.

   "Keith!" Kilborn said as he opened doors to the sound, graphics, and
   editing bays. "Come out, you son-of-a-bitch. I know you're in here
   somewhere. I just want to talk to you for a second. I got your daily
   dose of Did You Know right here!"

   Olbermann was at MSNBC studios in Secaucus, NJ at the time.

   After ransacking sportscaster Stuart Scott's dressing room, urinating
   on his own shoes, and emerging with a tie knotted around his bare,
   sweaty neck, Kilborn proceeded to interrupt the 6 a.m. broadcast of
   SportsCenter by forcibly removing anchor Scott Van Pelt, whom Kilborn
   referred to as a "wannabe," from his chair.

   Kilborn then repeatedly attempted to kiss former colleague Linda Cohn.

   "Miss me, baby?" Kilborn said while unsuccessfully trying to suppress
   a fit of belching. "I gotta say, I'm--I'm--I'm proud of ya, Linda.
   Longevity, people. This woman just drips longevity. Drips. Linda Cohn,
   everyone!"

   Added Kilborn: "Stick around, folks. I've got five questions with
   Linda coming up right after the break. Maybe this time she'll say
   'yes.'"

   Kilborn then burst into tears, collapsed, and was eventually escorted
   out of ESPN headquarters. According to employees, Kilborn mumbled
   underneath his breath that he was starving and would be "dropping by"
   The Daily Show studios, hopefully before they took down the staff's
   free lunch buffet.

   "They still do that there, right?" Kilborn asked.


   STOCKHOLM--2007 was an extraordinary year for former vice president Al
   Gore, who received the highest honors in both film and humanitarianism
   for his tireless efforts in creating a visually pleasing, hour-long
   slide-show presentation using the popular computer program Keynote.
   [4]Enlarge Image Gore Wins 

   Gore displays his vast knowledge of the program's "custom shape" tool.

   The slide show, which features approximately 80 full-color pictures of
   landforms and people, as well as a vast array of detailed line and bar
   graphs, proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that a successful visual
   presentation must utilize both an application's audio and graphic
   capabilities. Furthermore, Gore effectively silenced many of his
   critics by incorporating short videos.

   "The Nobel Committee was deeply moved by Mr. Gore's passion for making
   a clear, concise, easy-to-watch slide show," Professor Geir Lundestad,
   director of the Nobel Institute, told reporters in late October. "[The
   slide show] truly displayed how well-placed transitions--be they
   dissolves, wipes, or splits--can really tie a presentation together."

   Added Lundestad: "Also, the slides with multi-image animation were
   cool."

   In February, Gore's montage of satellite images and title slides was
   awarded an Oscar by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences
   and was hailed for presenting a "truly global message" with a clear
   beginning, middle, and end.

   "I was stunned," said Phoenix resident Amy Swinton, 23, who saw the
   slide show twice in theaters. "It turns out that you don't always need
   flashy fonts or background colors to make a great multimedia
   presentation. Simple white text on an all black background can be very
   effective."

   Swinton later called the slide show extremely informative, saying that
   over the course of two hours she was completely convinced of the
   reality of Keynote's "bounce" slide-transition option.

   "I think these awards will help give even more weight to Mr. Gore's
   ultimate message," New York Times columnist Paul Krugman wrote. "In
   our changing world, it is absolutely essential that all of us do our
   part to stay informed about the various eye-catching possibilities of
   today's slide-show software."


   WASHINGTON, DC-With his lead in presidential polls narrowing to just
   four points over Republican challenger George W. Bush, an already
   anxious Al Gore wondered aloud Monday whether the latest Doonesbury is
   about him.

   [4]Enlarge Image Gore Wondering 

   A 1999 file photo of Gore reading The Washington Post Sunday comics
   page.

   The cartoon in question, the Sept. 25 installment of Garry Trudeau's
   popular, long-running satirical comic strip, depicts a silhouetted
   political figure that strongly resembles the vice-president.

   "Do you think this is supposed to be me?" Gore asked deputy campaign
   manager Mark Fabiani shortly after finishing breakfast and, as is his
   custom, turning to the Washington Post comics page before beginning
   his day. "I think it is."

   An anonymous source within the Gore camp said the candidate later
   added, "Because it's not a very flattering portrayal, if it is. I
   mean, is that what the American people think of me? They don't think
   I'm some kind of big dork, do they?"

   The controversial strip, which ran in hundreds of newspapers across
   the U.S., depicts an unnamed political figure engaged in a top-secret
   strategy session with a group of shadowy advisors. At first glance,
   the character, which Trudeau will neither confirm nor deny represents
   Gore, appears to be seeking out advice of a substantive, political
   nature. Upon reading the word balloon above the character's head,
   however, it becomes apparent that he is actually consulting his
   advisors on matters of fashion, showing himself to be a shallow, vain
   individual more concerned with his appearance than with issues that
   affect the American people.

   "Look, I can take a joke as well as the next guy," Gore told Fabiani.
   "But if this is supposed to be me, well, I just don't think that's
   very nice. What's worse, millions of people read this thing every day.
   Can you imagine how that makes me feel? It's not exactly a
   confidence-builder, to say the least."

   Continued Gore, "I mean, sure, I may have hired a fashion consultant
   early in the campaign and tinkered with my outfits and color schemes a
   bit, emphasizing earth tones to soften my image. But do I really
   deserve to be mocked in front of the whole country like this?"

   According to the anonymous source, approximately 15 minutes later,
   Gore turned to top economic adviser Laura Tyson and said, "I'd hate to
   think that all this time, while I've been trying to promote education,
   deficit reduction, and progressive environmental policies, the
   electorate was laughing at me."

   Gore reportedly seemed preoccupied throughout the day, becoming easily
   distracted during campaign strategy sessions and bringing up the
   subject of the cartoon frequently.

   "He kept asking everyone about it," the source said. "It was obvious
   that Trudeau really got under his skin with this one. I felt sorry for
   him, really."

   Despite repeated assurances from top advisors that he shouldn't fret
   about the strip and that no one reads Doonesbury anymore, Gore
   continued to obsess.

   [5]Enlarge Image Gore Wondering jump 

   The Doonesbury in question.

   "Man, I really felt sorry for him," said Washington Post reporter
   David Maraniss, who has been following Gore on the campaign trail
   since January. "He looked like a sad, pathetic little kid. Poor
   guy-those cutting-edge, Pulitzer Prize-winning political cartoonists
   can be so cruel sometimes, with their barbed pens and rapier wit."

   "This thing has been a real blow to Gore's morale," Maraniss
   continued. "He was feeling a bit more confident after that Newsweek
   poll showed him up by 10, but now he just stays in his office
   obsessively re-reading the strip. He'd never openly admit it, but the
   feeling among staffers is that Al's self-esteem may have taken a
   significant hit from this lampooning."

   Perhaps most devastating, according to Brill's Content editor-in-chief
   David Kuhn, is the fact that the cartoon comes at a time when Gore is
   "really trying very hard" to impress people.

   "If this cartoon is indeed about Gore, as he fears," Kuhn said, "it
   would almost appear that Trudeau deliberately chose to 'needle' Gore,
   so to speak, on this particularly sensitive subject. Like he was
   specifically picking out an area in which Gore was vulnerable to
   criticism in order to make fun of him or even provoke derisive
   laughter against him. That's kind of mean, if you think about it."

   Gore supporters are hoping that the ambiguity of the strip's subject
   will give the vice-president the "out" he needs to stop worrying and
   once again focus on the presidential race.

   "Maybe it isn't about me," Gore said. "There are lots of other
   politicians out there, you know. Yeah, it's probably about one of
   them. Now that I look at it again, the guy does bear a pretty strong
   resemblance to [Arizona Sen. John] McCain."

   But despite such signs that Gore may be ready to put the cartoon
   behind him, observers fear that the worst is yet to come. According to
   Trudeau spokespersons at Universal Press Syndicate, in next Sunday's
   Doonesbury the mystery politician will be depicted as a floating block
   of wood.


   BROOKLYN, NY--Nearly 50 percent of 26-year-old paralegal Philip
   Jenkins' encoded long-term memories involve button combinations,
   game-playing experiences, and spatial-cognitive maps of various levels
   and worlds from Nintendo's line of video-game consoles, a team of
   neuroscientists reported Tuesday.

   The memory-evaluation study, headed by Dr. Franklin McCarroll of New
   York University's School of Psychology, revealed that approximately 47
   percent of Jenkins' hippocampus is dedicated to storing notable
   video-game victories and frustrating last-minute defeats, while 32
   percent of his amygdala contains embedded neurological scripts
   pertaining to game strategies, character back stories, theme songs,
   and cheat codes. In addition, his entire dorsolateral prefrontal
   cortex is devoted to remembering the time he did a helicopter dunk
   from half-court with Shawn Kemp at the buzzer to beat the Charlotte
   Hornets 82-81 in NBA Jam: Tournament Edition.
   [4]Enlarge Image Nintendo 

   Jenkins makes room for new Wii tennis-based memories by eradicating
   moments from his high school graduation and a 1994 trip to a local
   aquarium.

   Although these percentages are only slightly above the average for
   males in Jenkins' age bracket, McCarroll said that the memories most
   closely associated with the interactive gaming systems can be accessed
   far more quickly than any of his memories involving school, work, or
   family.

   "It takes Mr. Jenkins 4.33 milliseconds to retrieve the memory of
   holding his newborn sister for the first time, but just 1.09
   milliseconds to retrieve the memory of knocking Pikachu off the Sector
   Z platform with Donkey Kong's 'ground pound' maneuver in Super Smash
   Bros.," McCarroll said. "In fact, the only school-related memory he is
   able to review as vividly as the underwater-bomb-defusing level of
   Nintendo Entertainment System's Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is his
   first day of college, which was spent playing multiplayer GoldenEye
   007 with his roommates."

   According to an fMRI of Jenkins' brain regions during the process of
   memory recall, his parietal lobe registers the same amount of activity
   when he hears the word "mother" as it does when he hears the words
   "Banjo Kazooie."

   "Due to sheer repetition in his peak synaptic years for processing new
   information, every neural strand in Philip's basal ganglia is embedded
   with the Konami Code: up, up, down, down, left, right, left, right, B,
   A, select, start," McCarroll said.

   Nintendo-based memories are also among Jenkins' most frequently
   retrieved, researcher Dr. Francis Holbrook said. A series of recent
   tests suggest that when Jenkins accesses stored information in
   response to visual or mental cues, he is most likely to remember his
   family's trip to Disney World, followed by the time he beat the
   dreaded Stage 57 on Bubble Bobble without losing a life, the first
   time he rode a bike, the exact route he made Bo Jackson run to defeat
   his friend Jason Whitner at Tecmo Bowl, hiding underneath his covers
   while his parents fought noisily in the adjoining room, and the
   locations of the three warp whistles in Super Mario Bros. 3.

   "On Friday, we showed Mr. Jenkins a series of images meant to elicit
   memories of times of great pain and confusion in his life," Holbrook
   said. "The first two events that came to the fore of his psyche were
   an incident in late 2000 when the screen froze just as he was about to
   set a new 'best lap' record on Wave Race 64, and his
   great-grandmother's funeral."

   Holbrook also suggested that as much as 17 percent of Jenkins'
   cerebellum capacity may be filled with motor-coordination skills of
   the various Nintendo system controllers, including the Power Glove,
   the Power Pad mat, and the special joystick issued by Capcom for the
   Super NES edition of Street Fighter II.

   Some researchers have theorized that the amount of space Jenkins'
   brain allocates for Nintendo-based memories has resulted in damage to
   or the complete loss of his non-Nintendo-based memories. They note
   that although Jenkins cannot remember his father's cell phone number
   (415-547-6823) off the top of his head, he can recite without
   hesitation the password that allows you to view the credits in Mike
   Tyson's Punch-Out!! (106-113-0120).

   In a parallel study, a team of Columbia University behavioral
   psychologists suggested that Nintendo-related feats and
   accomplishments also account for approximately 75 percent of Jenkins'
   self-esteem.

   "Unsurprisingly, Mr. Jenkins' self-perception draws from the most
   important moments in his life, and is framed largely by the time he
   hit a game-winning grand slam with Saul in NES's Little League
   Baseball to help the New York team win the tournament," Dr. Gary
   Nordstrom said. "It is not uncommon for men his age to measure
   themselves by their greatest athletic achievements, and this is
   without a doubt Mr. Jenkins'."

   The findings also revealed that about 60 percent of Jenkins' repressed
   memories may involve Nintendo. In a Rorschach inkblot test
   administered to him, Jenkins compared a series of amorphous shapes to
   a bird eating its young, his mother brandishing a broadsword, and the
   entire cast of characters from Castlevania II: Simon's Quest.


   KANSAS CITY, MO--Scientists at Hallmark Cards' Center for the Research
   and Development of Sentiments announced Monday that they had
   discovered three previously unknown emotions that can be experienced
   by human beings and captured on a folded piece of card stock.
   [4]Enlarge Image Hallmark Scientists 

   Exploring The Human Psyche

   Dr. Susan McMurrough has spent years analyzing the deep, unexamined
   feelings of thousands of test subjects in order to discover new,
   marketable emotions.

   "These new Hallmark-brand feelings will fill a void that has too long
   persisted in the consumable pleasantries market," said Hallmark
   president and CEO Don Hall, Jr., speaking to reporters in front of a
   watercolor backdrop of tulips beside a pond. "They will add a whole
   new level of complexity and nuance to the way we humans relate to one
   another, and will fill in any gaps left by our 'Thinking of You' and
   'Just Because' categories."

   The first emotion the project successfully isolated was "requiapathy,"
   the combination of relief and guilt that comes with the sudden
   realization that you no longer miss a dead loved one. That discovery
   quickly led to the uncovering of "seprudity," the feeling of
   appreciating a coworker's dedication without fully understanding his
   or her job function, and "trepatiousness," a synthesis of rage and
   jealousy, though more muted and often accompanied by a sensation of
   weighlessness.

   "[Trepatiousness] appears to be a very rare emotion, almost
   exclusively experienced while in a dream state," said principal
   investigator Dr. Susan McMurrough, a leader in the field of keepsake
   science best known for her work on the revolutionary "Blank Inside"
   line of cards. "The only way to activate it during waking hours, in
   fact, is with a combination of reds, oranges, and drowsy beagles in
   top hats."

   The three emotions represent the latest discovery in the center's
   ongoing Emotions Mapping Project, a $42.4 million effort to identify
   and codify all of the mental and physiological states generated within
   the human psyche that are not currently covered by Hallmark's
   extensive line of greeting cards and collectible ornaments.
   [5]Enlarge Image Hallmark Cards 

   A prototype of one of the new cards, which will be available at
   Hallmark stores in time for Father's Day.

   In 2002, McMurrough monitored the MRI activity of nearly 10,000 test
   subjects between the ages of 25 and 40 as they described all emotions
   they had experienced in the past six months and rated each for its
   intensity, duration, and whether it would be conveyable to others by
   mail. To identify targets of further study, McMurrough's team
   referenced that data against a matrix of all possible combinations of
   the neurotransmitters that catalyze human emotion.

   "Until now, millions of people worldwide were forced to express their
   sincere and heartfelt requiapathy, seprudity, and trepatiousness with
   clumsy words and gestures," Hall said. "Our colorful and succinct
   messages will spare them countless hours of inconvenience and
   potential misunderstandings."

   After a second group of Hallmark scientists successfully replicated
   the initial study's results, the sentiments were immediately submitted
   to the U.S. Patent Office and rushed to Hallmark headquarters, where
   writers, illustrators, and graphic designers interpreted the new
   emotions in warm, concise verse; inoffensive, ingratiating humor; and
   reassuring pastel watercolors.

   "This research is not only groundbreaking--it's inspirational," said
   Mallory Jefson, a writer for Hallmark's Best Wishes department, who
   added that the emotions have led them to creative heights not reached
   since Secretaries Day became Administrative Professionals Day in 2000.
   In a single day of brainstorming, Jefson and her colleagues developed
   15 seprudity-based card concepts that incorporated cats in sunglasses,
   and 22 new coffee mugs featuring the tart-tongued, post-menopausal
   character Maxine expressing requiapathy.

   The Hallmark laboratories have been at the forefront of the greeting
   card sciences since the '40s. Their work has led to the creation of
   eight federally recognized holidays, the specification of a time frame
   in which someone ought to get well, and over a dozen flower and
   cursive-font combinations that, sales figures show, have effectively
   conveyed the complex emotional and psychological states of an
   estimated 185 million Americans.


   COLUMBUS, OH--The Columbus Health Department closed the Mexican fast
   food restaurant Burrito Max on Monday after it failed a routine
   inspection, completely neglecting to take into account  the fact that
   the popular, conveniently located establishment was a perfectly good
   burrito place that served kick-ass burritos at a totally cheap price.
   [4]Enlarge Image Health Department 

   Hungry for a burrito? Too damn bad, health officials say.

   "The food there was just fine," said bike messenger Seth Sherwood, 25,
   adding that he "almost never got sick" after eating at Burrito Max.
   "This is bullshit. I bet those health guys have never even tried one
   of their Grande Texas Chili Extremes."

   According to a report filed by city food-safety inspector Dan
   Griffith, Burrito Max, a cheap, no-frills eatery that never aspired to
   be anything it wasn't, had a handful of very small, practically
   insignificant health-code violations, such as vermin on the premises,
   a persistent foul odor, traces of E. coli, and unsanitary food-contact
   surfaces and equipment--like what restaurant in this city doesn't.

   The report, however, did not mention the restaurant's free drink
   refills and the signature chili-cheese fries, which, according to
   restaurant regulars, were "awesome."

   "If those guys got a bad burrito, they should have just asked for
   another one instead of writing the place up like a bunch of little
   bitches," said Ohio State University sophomore Greg Hall, 19, who,
   like a lot of customers, didn't absolutely love the food, but found it
   more than serviceable, especially during lunch, after bar time, or
   when he was craving a burrito. "If they really want to help me out,
   here's an idea: They could open up another burrito place, keep it open
   until 4 a.m., and call it Burrito Max."

   Though the report cited the employees' habit of not wearing hairnets
   or shirts and showing up to work "in a generally unhygienic state," it
   overlooked the fact that the heavily pierced and tattooed staff added
   to the authentic, laid-back atmosphere of Burrito Max. Most
   importantly, the place served solid, hearty,  burritos fast and hot,
   something most burrito joints in the area do not. In addition, the
   line to order was never too long.

   "I didn't go to Burrito Max because it was clean," copy shop assistant
   Rachael Grimaldi, 26, said. "I went because my friends worked there,
   the tofu burrito was cheap, and they had a bike rack outside the front
   entrance."

   Had health department officials bothered to interview Burrito Max's
   patrons, they would have learned these things, rather than just
   dwelling on the dirty floors--which people don't eat off of, last time
   anyone checked--and the consistently out-of-order bathroom with the
   hilarious "Fuck You" carved into the "Employees Must Wash Hands" sign.

   "I'm sure the risk of food-borne illnesses wasn't as big a deal as
   they made it out to be," said 24-year-old legal assistant Deirdre
   Sarnoff upon hearing that the restaurant's poultry and beef were
   stored at improper temperatures. "It's not like I ever bit into a
   cockroach or anything. Where am I supposed to eat now, some overpriced
   corporate burrito chain like Chipotle?"

   "Christ," Sarnoff added. "It seems like every time I find a cheap
   place that's open past midnight the stupid city comes along and shuts
   it down."

   Burrito Max is not the only local eatery to be unfairly shuttered by
   the Health Department in recent months. In March, Cecilia's Pizza was
   shut down for rat feces and a lack of properly covered waste
   receptacles, despite its sweet $3.99 deal that included two slices of
   cheese pizza and a medium drink. Two weeks ago, the Indian Buffet,
   located in the basement of an apartment building on 595 Commonwealth
   Ave., was closed for unsanitary conditions, though, according to
   patrons, the food quality was "still pretty decent" even after the big
   grease fire they had there last August.


   WASHINGTON, DC--A confused President Bush broke free from the
   restraint of Secret Service agents this morning and ran in pursuit of
   departing deputy chief of staff Karl Rove's car for several blocks
   down Pennsylvania Avenue before being outdistanced by the vehicle.
   [4]Enlarge Image Heratbroken Bush 

   Bush sits in disbelief as his longtime buddy disappears forever and
   ever and ever.

   "Why can't I go with him?" Bush tearfully asked advisers as the
   longtime Republican strategist's sedan disappeared over the horizon.
   "When is he coming back?"

   White House staff were deeply moved by the scene, saying that despite
   their best efforts, no one was able to explain to the president that
   he would no longer be able to remain at his chief adviser's side.
   Onlookers were clearly choked up as a tearful Rove, trying to close
   the car door behind him, told Bush in a stern, commanding tone to back
   away.

   "Go on...you hear me? Get out of here, I say!" Rove said. "I don't
   love you anymore, understand? Now get! Get!"

   Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice witnessed the emotionally charged
   moment. "We knew that deep down [Rove] still cared, that he was only
   pretending to be mad at the president," she said. "But he had no
   choice. Leaving was the only way to avoid the ongoing Congressional
   inquiries."

   Rove reportedly tried to prepare Bush for this inevitability in late
   July by taking him on a special fishing trip so they could spend some
   quality time together and he could also give Bush a brief rundown on
   how the presidency works. Rove said he "didn't have the heart" to
   break the news to the president, who fell asleep in their rowboat with
   the fishing pole still in his hands. On his last day, nearly two weeks
   later, Rove spent the whole morning with Bush before the tear-jerking
   exit, ruffling his hair, telling him to "be brave" and "listen to
   Cheney," and explaining that he was going to have to be "the man of
   the White House now."
   [5]Enlarge Image Bush Heartbroken Jump 

   Rove was finally able to leave the White House, despite Bush's
   heartrending stalling tactics.

   Though Rove's resignation had been imminent for weeks, Bush appeared
   oblivious to the situation, which is evident in photos of him smiling
   as if nothing were wrong until the moment he discovered several
   suitcases near one of the West Wing's back-door exits. According to
   high-level administration sources, Bush asked Rove, "Where are we
   going?"

   While sneaking the departing official out to a waiting town car,
   Secret Service agents were briefly able to deceive Bush by telling him
   Rove was just running down to the cellar to get him some ice cream.
   But when Bush heard the car's engine start in the driveway, he burst
   outside to stop Rove.

   "I'll never forget the sight of the president, watching Rove's face in
   the back window becoming smaller and smaller as the car pulled away
   forever," Rice said.

   The president continued to ask about his former adviser throughout the
   day, often clutching Rove's day planner, dialing his extension, and
   blinking uncomprehendingly when told that Rove was never coming back.

   White House press secretary Tony Snow was finally called in to attempt
   to convey the reality of the situation to the president, but he was
   unable to do so.

   "He kept looking up at me with those wide, innocent eyes, and I didn't
   know what to say," Snow told reporters. "Maybe someday when he's
   older, he'll understand how the public lost trust in his big buddy
   after a series of crucial political missteps, and how firing those
   attorneys and the..."

   At this point in the briefing Snow fell silent, overcome with emotion,
   and moving many in the press room to tears.

   White House officials say they would like to give President Bush more
   time to process the loss before pressuring him to appoint a new deputy
   chief of staff, since he does not yet appear ready to confront the
   concept of a "new Rove."

   Bush sits in disbelief as his longtime buddy disappears forever and
   ever and ever.

   Rove was finally able to leave the White House, despite Bush's
   heartrending stalling tactics.


   NASHUA, NH--Politically engaged citizen David Haas, 25, described by
   friends and acquaintances as a "big democracy geek," even votes in
   primaries.

     Huge democracy geek

   Haas casts his vote in some obscure Sept. 10 election.

   "I can understand voting in the big elections, like for president or
   governor, or maybe even senator," longtime friend Gregg Becher said
   Monday. "But David votes in, like, mayoral and county-supervisor
   elections. How dorky is that?"

   The right to vote, as guaranteed in the Constitution, is among the
   hallmarks of the American democratic system. But Haas has exercised
   his franchise rights to an embarrassing extreme, voting in every
   federal, state, and local election since turning 18.

   "Normally, David's a reliable, punctual employee," said Dorothy
   Raubel, owner of Raubel Garden Center, where Haas has worked for the
   past seven years. "But then there's that occasional Tuesday morning in
   April or November when he calls in saying he'll be late to work. It's
   a strange habit, but we've all grown accustomed to it by now."

   Haas prides himself on being an informed voter, making sure to
   familiarize himself with candidates' positions before casting a vote.
   A self-described "independent" who tends to favor Democratic
   candidates, he can summarize the basic position of both major parties
   on most issues. As a result, Haas has endured the mockery and derision
   of those around him.

   "On Sept. 10, he showed up late to work, and you could just tell he'd
   been voting," coworker Mike Summers said. "He was holding something in
   his hand, and we were like, 'Hey, Haasenpfeffer, whatcha got there?'
   He said it was the League of Women Voters candidate guide. So Rob
   [Mularkey] says, 'League of Women Voters? Now I know why you vote so
   much--you want to horn in on that hot women-voter action!' David
   didn't even smile; he just got all huffy and said the guide was from
   the morning paper and that copies were available to the public."

   Richard Prohaska, Haas' next-door neighbor, can attest to Haas'
   strange dedication to the American political process. Over the years,
   Prohaska said he has seen him get into numerous doorstep discussions
   with campaign workers and canvassing local politicians.

   "About two months ago, some alderwoman who was up for reelection was
   going door-to-door passing out leaflets," Prohaska said. "I took one,
   thanked her, and closed the door as fast as I could. About 30 minutes
   later, I'm backing the car out of the garage to wash it, and there's
   David talking to her on his porch. I go to get the hose, and when I
   come back, he's actually inviting her into his home. I was half-done
   waxing when she finally came out. Either they had one hell of a
   quickie, or David cares deeply about local politics. Knowing him, it
   was definitely the latter."

   Though it's not clear why Haas insists on voting in every election,
   there is no shortage of speculation.

   "My guess is, it's his way of hiding from the real world," said
   Jennifer Thorsten, Haas' sister. "He's always been interested in
   politics. He was on the debate team in high school and got a B.A. in
   poli sci in college. I've tried to get him to skip an election, but he
   never does. He says that only by exercising our democratic freedoms do
   we keep our democracy healthy and vital. Whatever, David."


   WASHINGTON, DC--Democratic candidate John Kerry seems to truly believe
   he has a chance at winning the presidency in 2004, the adorable
   Massachusetts senator revealed Monday.

   [4]Enlarge Image Adorable Democratic Candidate 

   Kerry, looking very nice all dressed up.

   "The current administration's reckless approach to tax cuts is a huge
   fiscal gamble," said the plucky politician. "It benefits the wealthy,
   hurts the poor, and will never succeed in restoring broad-based
   economic growth and financial discipline."

   "We must act now, before our nation plunges deeper into debt," added
   Kerry, sounding as cute as ever. "When George Bush took office, there
   was a projected budget surplus of $5.6 trillion from 2002 to 2011.
   Now, economists project hundreds of billions of dollars in deficits
   for the same time period."

   The precocious Kerry is one of nine candidates in the race for the
   Democratic presidential nomination.

   "That is so great," said a beaming Dan Rather following a report on
   CBS Evening News. "Kerry says he will beat not only all the White
   House hopefuls in the primary, but also President Bush in the
   election. Keep it up, champ!"

   In spite of Bush's campaign war chest of more than $40 million, Kerry
   maintains a positive outlook.

   "Our country cannot afford to stand behind a president who cuts taxes
   in the face of huge military spending," Kerry said on NBC's Meet The
   Press Sunday. "We must choose a leader who is not afraid to make
   economic decisions that make us stronger in the future, not just the
   ones he thinks will keep him in office."

   "Yes, sir, 'Mr. President,'" bemused interviewer Tim Russert said.
   "Whatever you say."

   Kerry has campaigned tirelessly since announcing earlier this year
   that he wanted to run for president.

   "I believe it's time to turn this country around," Kerry said at a
   campaign stop in Davenport, IA. "On virtually every issue, the
   president has moved America in the wrong direction: the budget busted,
   the economy down, the stock market down, unemployment up, the
   uninsured up, and an America increasingly isolated in the world."

   [5]Enlarge Image Adorable Democratic Candidate jump 

   House Majority Leader Tom DeLay (R-TX) congratulates Kerry for making
   a "super-duper point" about Iraq.

   "He looks so handsome," 68-year-old onlooker Iris Weum said. "It's so
   nice that he's trying to be president."

   Kerry, looking very presidential in his nice new suit and clean white
   shirt, also criticized Bush's strategy for the war in Iraq.

   "The truth is, the Bush Administration went to war without a plan to
   win the peace in Iraq," Kerry said. "Our troops should not be sent
   into battle like campaign props. We must demand more of our
   commander-in-chief."

   Though the road to the presidency is a long one, experts report Kerry
   is "doing a great job."

   "Kerry's presidential campaign had nearly $11 million in the bank at
   the end of June, which tops the field of Democratic hopefuls in terms
   of cash," said Candice Lowman, a political analyst with the
   conservative think tank American Enterprise Institute. "So, that's
   something. Heh heh. What a sweetie."

   Lowman added: "Well, you know, though, as the White House scrambles to
   answer questions about disputed intelligence on Iraq's nuclear-weapons
   programs, at least one of those Democratic candidates might have a
   shot. Stranger things have happened. Aw, who am I kidding?"

   While Kerry seeks to discredit Bush, he must also differentiate
   himself from the eight other campaigning Democrats. His main
   competition within the party comes from U.S. Sen. Joe Lieberman
   (D-CT), U.S. Rep. Richard Gephardt (D-MO), and Vermont Gov. Howard
   Dean, all of whom think they are going to win the election in 2004.

   "Go get 'em, tigers," said Toby Nichols, a top advisor to Bush's
   campaign in 2000. "Go be president, guys."

   Kerry shows no signs of slowing his cute campaign efforts.

   "It is long overdue that America stops being the only industrialized
   nation on this planet that doesn't have health care available for all
   of its citizens," Kerry said in a conference call with reporters. "I'm
   running for president to make health care for all Americans a right
   and not a privilege, to bring costs under control, and to cover the
   uninsured."

   "Awwww," said Adrian Tung, reporter for The Baltimore Sun. "That
   Kerry."


   SAN FRANCISCO--Traveling from as far away as park benches on the other
   side of town, hundreds of rabid temporary housing enthusiasts lined up
   overnight Friday in hopes of being among the first admitted to the
   city's newest homeless shelter.

   "I got here around 3 a.m., and already there was a crowd of people
   slumped over out front," said Jerome Ashford, a die-hard fan of having
   a roof over his head. "I had a feeling it was going to be popular, but
   this turnout--it's just insane. If I can't get in tonight, I don't
   know what I'll do."
   [4]Enlarge Image Hundreds Line 

   Mega-fans of clean bedding line up to be the first to stay in the
   shelter.

   Since last Tuesday, men and women of all ages have left the familiar
   comforts of air-conditioned bus stations and ATM lobbies to brave the
   elements outside the much-anticipated Mission District shelter. While
   most arrive with nothing more than three partially smoked cigarettes
   and a slice of bologna wrapped in a handkerchief, others have come
   fully prepared for the long wait with shopping carts full of supplies.

   "I haven't been this excited since the bakery down the street threw
   out an entire trash bag of bagels," said Lawrence Jones, who took the
   week off from collecting aluminum cans and selling his plasma to a
   nearby blood bank to wait outside the shelter. "Sure, I haven't
   showered in a public fountain in days, and I miss the warmth of my
   alleyway back home, but in the end, it'll all be worth it."

   Although the prospect of sleeping outdoors for nothing more than the
   most basic of human necessities might seem extreme to some, many in
   attendance say they've been looking forward to the shelter's grand
   opening since first reading about it beneath a blanket of newspapers.

   "I started begging for subway fare the moment I heard the news," said
   Wendy Slovic, 41, adding that there was "no way" she could wait a
   couple of weeks for the crowds to thin out. "Say whatever you want,
   but I wouldn't trade my place in line for all the scratch tickets in
   the world."

   For some, the anticipation of lying on a cot or having three meals a
   day is so great that blacking out at night has become an almost
   impossible task. Still many others, who have been eagerly counting
   down the days since fishing an old wall calendar from a dumpster, can
   hardly put their growing elation into words.

   "Where is my soul, they took my soul away," said Michael "Bone" Zahn,
   who for the last week hasn't left his place at the front of the line
   even to use the restroom. "Broken windows like spiderwebs, a stone on
   a rocking chair, rain rain rain rain--begone, you cloth demons!"

   Among the clamoring mass of refuge fanatics, the most devoted arrived
   early Sunday morning in full costume, including old shopping bags that
   had been fashioned into makeshift footwear and heavy ash-colored
   makeup covering their faces and hands. Some even carried a variety of
   creative signs with them.

   "Back when I started lining up to get into shelters, there were only
   10 or 15 of us at most," said Samuel Robins, 63, gesturing at the
   teeming crowd of shelter enthusiasts on hand. "To see how far things
   have come in the last decade alone. It's unbelievable really."

   "Many of the kids here today weren't even alive when the first shelter
   was built on this street," Robins added.

   Despite the growing excitement, a number of mega-fans who have spent
   the last week sleeping in front of the shelter, and the week before
   that sleeping behind the shelter, said they are trying to keep their
   already high expectations in check.

   "I know it probably won't live up to the picture I have in my head,
   but it's still hard not to get your hopes up," harmonica musician
   Johnnie Brooklyn, 39, said. "You want it to be amazing--for there to
   be hot food on hand, maybe even hot water--but at the same time, you
   have to be realistic about these sorts of things."

   "Man, hot water would be nice, though," Brooklyn added.

   While the mob scene in front of the shelter has caused a few minor
   disruptions, including one incident in which a passerby was asked for
   spare change 143 consecutive times, only a handful of residents have
   reacted negatively to the swelling crowds.

   "To be honest, I feel sorry for them," said Beverly Sherman, an
   administrative coordinator for Wells Fargo Bank. "To have so little in
   your life that you think nothing of camping out on the streets for
   days on end--it's depressing."

   Added Sherman: "Seriously, these people need help."


   CAMP FALLUJAH, IRAQ--Once widely acknowledged as the most crucial and
   compelling news story in the world, the U.S. military occupation of
   Iraq was, for the first time in the conflict's five-year history,
   deemed too uninteresting to be considered among 2007's most important
   news events.
   [4]Enlarge Image Iraq War 

   Some soldiers stand around barely making news.

   According to polls, the war, which claimed American and Iraqi lives at
   a record rate throughout the past year, had simply grown too
   repetitive to warrant more than a passing recognition. For 57
   consecutive months, viewers across the country were subjected to
   monotonous and tedious roadside bombings, predictable charges of
   corruption and negligence against private contractors, and a chaotic,
   hard-to-understand political situation that never seemed to change.

   "Is that still going on?" 46-year-old Dayton, OH resident Jim Svaboda
   asked about the war, which many were told would be ending as early as
   May 2003. "Absolutely nothing new has happened over there in months.
   Even the soldiers are tired of it."

   In September, a massive march against the war drew hundreds of
   thousands of protesters to the nation's capital, but failed to capture
   the attention of most major news outlets. And despite the insistence
   of a number of observers and political analysts that the war in Iraq
   was actually getting better, viewers continued to turn away by the
   millions.

   "The average consumer can only read so many articles about 18-month
   redeployments that keep soldiers away from their families for years,
   or the lack of decent body armor, before they just tune out
   completely," said Kris Duncan, professor of media studies at Brandeis
   University. "That kind of thing might have seemed fresh two years ago,
   but people today want something unexpected. Frankly, if I have to
   watch one more clip of amputee footage from Iraq, I'm going to be
   sick."

   Political blogger Janet Friedberg, of HotUpdateNow.com, agreed.

   "The Iraq war is so over," Friedberg said. "Even if it goes on for
   another 10 years."

   Some Washington-based supporters of the war said they were confident
   they could regain public interest in 2008 by pumping hundreds of
   billions of dollars into the conflict.


   CUPERTINO, CA--Apple Computer, producer of the successful iPod MP3
   player, is now offering consumers limited rights to buy their own home
   movies from the media store iTunes for $1.99 each.
   [4]Enlarge Image Steve Jobs 

   Jobs shows off the new software with a clip from the Patterson-Jones
   wedding that he downloaded live.

   "Ladies and gentlemen, the future of home-video viewing is now," Apple
   CEO Steve Jobs said at  a media event Tuesday morning. "As soon as you
   record that precious footage of your daughter's first steps, you'll be
   able to buy it right back from iTunes and download it directly to your
   computer and video iPod."

   Jobs emphasized that the videos will be presented unedited and in
   their original form, save for a small Apple logo in the lower
   right-hand corner of the image to protect the company's copyrighted
   materials from Internet piracy.

   Added Jobs: "No more searching through your movies folder for that
   footage of your 50th wedding anniversary. Now all you need is a
   768Kbps broadband connection and your credit card, and every timeless
   personal memory you've ever shot will be right at your fingertips."

   "Apple has always been about access," said MacAddict editor Ian
   Smythe. "Thanks to this revolutionary new software, all your
   clips--from your son's bris to your father's dying message--are
   available to you, your loved ones, and the 20 million iTunes users,
   who will be able to view them on up to five different computers."

   Apple currently owns an average of 20 gigabytes of digital footage per
   American  family, and it has also acquired an enormous library of the
   tens of millions of analog-format home movies dating from the early
   decades of the 20th century through 2001.

   "No more disappointment for Cynthia Hamill of Hartford, CT when she
   realizes she can't find that tape of herself singing 'Sweet Caroline'
   in the bath as an 8-year-old," Jobs said. "For only a couple of bucks,
   that cherished moment can again be hers."

   Early reaction to the home-video downloads has been positive. "$1.99
   seems reasonable to be able to relive my high-school graduation
   anytime I want," said Patrick Boyd of Pensacola, FL. "My parents don't
   understand the technology, but I can help them get it running whenever
   they want to watch it."

   "It's just a matter of convenience," Mansfield, OH resident Samantha
   Davidoff  said. "Why should I sift through the dozens of unlabeled DV
   tapes in my closet to find that submission tape I made for Extreme
   Makeover when I can just do a search on iTunes? Repurchasing my own
   stuff has never been this intuitive."

   However, some early users report running into technical glitches with
   the software.

   "I was really looking forward to watching my son's Easter greeting
   from Iraq," Eugene, OR resident Luka Bartoli said. "But the image
   froze and an alert came up saying it was temporarily unavailable due
   to low bandwidth. I miss my boy so much."

   Some users say they have had trouble  with the automated process by
   which previews are chosen for their new footage.

   "We were all excited to watch [daughter] Tabitha's birth when we got
   home from the hospital, but we could only view a 30-second clip before
   we had to buy it," Harvey Gaddis of Tulsa, OK said. "All we could see
   in the preview were some of the initial contractions."

   Others say the pricing can be restrictive and is not always timely.

   "I wanted to show my boyfriend a video I made for his birthday of me
   dancing in my underwear to our favorite song," Jessica Dupree of
   Manchester, NH said. "But his credit card was declined. I guess he'll
   just have to get it from someone at work."

   Despite these limitations, observers predict consumers will have
   little choice  once they realize how vast and comprehensive the
   collection is. Many amateur filmmakers are already making a strong
   showing in the iTunes videos charts.

   Eliza Quintana of Montclair, NJ, went online to purchase her
   daughter's fourth birthday party to find that it had reached No. 5 on
   the top video downloads.

   Said Quintana: "I guess I'm not the only one who thinks she's the most
   adorable little girl in the world!"


   NEW YORK--Actor James Gandolfini, best known for his portrayal of mob
   kingpin Tony Soprano on the hit HBO show The Sopranos, was shot to
   death Tuesday in a Greenwich Village restaurant by a fan unable to
   accept the open-ended conclusion of the series finale that aired
   earlier this month.
   [4]Enlarge Image James Gandolfini 

   The dramatic finale millions of Sopranos viewers had been waiting for.

   According to police reports, 28-year-old marketing research assistant
   Louis Bowen walked into the small Italian restaurant Occhiuto's at
   approximately 7:40 p.m. and headed directly toward Gandolfini's table.
   Bowen then drew a snub-nosed .38 revolver from his jacket and shot
   Gandolfini point-blank in the head three times before dropping the gun
   and calmly exiting the eatery.

   Bowen was apprehended two blocks away by two NYPD officers and
   reportedly put up no resistance.

   "I couldn't let it just hang," Bowen told police in a post-arrest
   confession released to the media. "Eight years of my life, and a
   fucking artsy cut to black? It was eating me up inside."

   In his statement, Bowen also used the word "betrayal" to describe the
   series's resolution, which he was convinced set up a climactic death
   for the sociopathic mafia don. The realization that Soprano's brutal
   life of constant fear and anxiety would have no real end slowly drove
   the obsessed Bowen over the edge.
   [5]Enlarge Image Louis Bowen 

   Gandolfini killer Louis Bowen, seized minutes after the shooting,
   confessed: "There could be no other way."

   "I had to tie up the loose ends, I just had to," Bowen said. "I'm
   positive this is exactly how [creator and executive producer] David
   Chase wanted fans to interpret the ending."

   NYPD spokesman Charles Krann expressed regret over the Gandolfini
   slaying, saying that law enforcement "should have known this was
   coming," considering the heavy foreshadowing of impending doom in The
   Sopranos'  final season and the lack of payoff.

   "The symbolism and dialogue clearly conveyed an ominous sense of death
   and decay," Krann said. "Particularly the scene in the second-to-last
   episode where Tony and his brother-in-law talk about death. So for
   Bowen, murdering the actor brought a kind of justice."

   "It probably would have all been different had there been a realistic
   chance of a Sopranos movie," Krann added.

   Gandolfini's murder comes in the wake of several recent attempts on
   the actor's life following the airing of the series finale, which
   included a car bomb that exploded when he remote-started his car, and
   an attempted garroting while he rode in the front seat of a cab.
   Though the star is mourned by millions, many expressed relief that
   Tony Soprano's saga is definitively over.

   "Thank God it finally happened," said Lenox Hill Hospital general
   surgery resident David Kinsky, who was sitting at a table adjacent to
   Gandolfini's at the time of the murder. "I just knew that was how the
   story was meant to end. After the finale, I was so anxious and
   depressed I could hardly sleep."

   Yet other eyewitnesses characterized Gandolfini's death as
   "predictable," "cheap," and "devoid of imagination."

   "I'm an intelligent person--I didn't need to be spoon-fed an ending
   like this," Occhiuto's bartender Kim Romano said. "The killer
   obviously didn't get that the finale was meant to show Tony doomed to
   live out his violent gangland existence in an infinite, monotonous
   loop. Like the Journey song at the end said, 'It goes on and on and on
   and on.'"

   Ironically, far from satisfactorily resolving the fate of Tony
   Soprano, Gandolfini's brutal slaying will most likely only intensify
   the controversy among fans, and will serve as prime water-cooler
   discussion material for days, if not weeks, to come.

   In a late-night City Hall press conference, New York mayor Michael
   Bloomberg refused to comment on the killing.

   "No, no, don't tell me what happened," said Bloomberg, hastily
   plugging his ears. "I TiVo'ed the last six episodes but I've been too
   busy to watch them. No spoilers, please."

   Jessica Simpson

   DALLAS--Speaking to reporters she had invited into her impenetrable
   subterranean Texas lair on Monday, Jessica Simpson gloated over the
   victory she recently achieved after nearly two years of using her
   personal charms, her unique brand of cunning, and every resource at
   her disposal to meticulously plot the downfall of the Cowboys' 2007
   season.

   "Ever since I was a little girl growing up in football-obsessed Texas,
   it's been a dream of mine to completely bring the evil, arrogant
   Cowboys organization and its boorish and cocky fans to their knees.
   But the suave and sophisticated players on that team are
   nigh-unapproachable for a nice country girl like me," Simpson declared
   from her Throne of Thorns, situated in the surveillance room of her
   headquarters. "And then I saw Tony. Instantly I knew that he was the
   weak link, the keystone, the only one for me to exploit."

   According to Simpson, her meticulously crafted plan hinged on
   capturing Romo's interest, artificially inflating his confidence, and
   allowing the Cowboys to gain success early in the season in order to
   create an atmosphere of swaggering arrogance among the team. Then,
   Simpson moved to Phase Beta, playfully distracting them with her
   ubiquitous, flirtatious presence games by waving, cheering, and
   attracting media attention. In addition, Simpson spent months
   analyzing quarterback efficiency, completion rates, and blocking
   stats, as well as dissecting the tendencies of defenses on second and
   third downs, and bending over to convince Romo to try out one of her
   audible calls.

   "He's such a kind and honest man," Simpson added. "Such Midwestern
   earnestness, such gullibility. You couldn't ask for someone dopier to
   manipulate in order to overthrow this so-called 'America's team.'"

   In addition to personally planning each phase of the diabolical plan,
   Simpson invested vast amounts of money into developing a highly
   volatile perfume formulated specifically to confuse and dazzle Romo.
   Created by skilled histological techno-artisans to magnify Simpson's
   natural pheromones, the quasi-hypnotic scent consisted of citrus
   blossoms, rose petals, and a complex combination of beetle secretions
   and the musk glands of Key deer. Simpson estimated the scent reduced
   Romo's I.Q. by as much as 40 points.

   "A few dabs placed on the nape of my neck and Tony's concentration
   melted when I leaned towards him," the multi-platinum recording artist
   said. "As a side effect, the soporific effects of the fragrance often
   forced him to hang on to the ball too long or throw into coverage
   instead of tossing the ball out of bounds."

   Simpson's long-sought opportunity to ruin the Cowboys attempt to
   return to the Super Bowl arose on Oct. 26, 2006 when, watching the
   monitors in the control center of her underground compound, she
   observed unwitting backup quarterback Tony Romo replace the injured
   Drew Bledsoe. Although Simpson said her ambitious scheme was merely in
   its embryonic stage at that point, she stated that when she saw Romo's
   first pass attempt was intercepted, his fate as the pop starlet's
   hapless pawn was sealed.

   Simpson immediately assembled a psychological profile of Romo to
   discover his desires, fears, and favorite color in order to expose him
   on the gridiron. Enlisting the services of paparazzi, Simpson offered
   to tip off the photographers in exchange for them sending reporter
   colleagues to Romo's hometown of Burlington, WI in order to gather
   critical information from his friends and neighbors.

   "No one could stand in my way," Simpson said. "His biggest fans were
   tricked into thinking the reporters wanted to write an article about
   what it was like for Tony to grow up in Burlington. Little did they
   know that I was obtaining knowledge key to eroding his completion
   rate."

   "The hardest thing was restraining myself since I could have made him
   melt down a few weeks into the season," Simpson added, claiming that
   it required a great deal of discipline to stop herself from giving
   Romo too much pumpkin pie when he spent Thanksgiving with her family.
   "But I knew if I really wanted to hurt the team and its stupid,
   slavish fans, I would have to let them get as close as possible and
   then snatch it away. So I let them make the playoffs."

   Although the final phase of Simpson's complex scheme occurred at her
   remote fortress in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico during the Cowboys' playoff
   bye week, the full impact of the plan would not be felt until Simpson
   called Romo at that week's practice every five minutes to apologize
   for jinxing him. Simpson, who asked the team's secretary to announce
   her phone calls over the PA system at the Cowboys facilities, credited
   the move for baffling the team into dropped passes and penalties at
   critical moments in the division playoff game.

   Simpson added that if she has some free time while recording her new
   country album, she would love the chance to ruin the Pro Bowl for the
   12 Cowboys selected.


   STOCKPORT, ENGLAND--British homosexual John Amaechi sent shockwaves
   throughout the sporting world last week when he announced, much to the
   surprise of his family and friends--in addition to NBA players and
   fans--that he lived a double life for five years in which he secretly
   worked as a professional basketball player.
   [4]Enlarge Image John Amaechi 

   "It was difficult living with this secret," said Amaechi, who in his
   new autobiography Man In The Middle reveals that he played in the NBA
   for the Cleveland Cavaliers, Utah Jazz, Orlando Magic, and perhaps
   most shockingly, the New York Knicks. "I loved it and hated it at the
   same time. And I was afraid that if I ever acted on some of my
   impulses, like say by requesting more playing time, that I would have
   ultimately embarrassed myself and everyone close to me."

   "Now, it's like a tremendous weight has been lifted," Amaechi added,
   stating that although he still feels a certain shame about his furtive
   involvement in the often shadowy world of professional basketball, it
   has been a great relief to finally be able to speak openly about his
   professional life.

   According to Amaechi, who spent most of his NBA career on the bench
   and only averaged six points and two rebounds per game, he knew at an
   early age that he was different from all the "normal players" when he
   went undrafted out of college, was unnoticed during his first season
   in which he only played 28 games, and was never involved with guns,
   drugs, or shifty agents. Amaechi claims he never once had the urge to
   record a sub-par rap album.

   Furthermore, no matter where Amaechi played, he always felt "awkward
   and out of place" on the court, adding that he was "never really
   certain if [he] was a center or a power forward."

   "I had no idea," former Cavaliers teammate Terrell Brandon said.
   "Sure, I saw John around the Cavaliers, but I didn't want to jump to
   any conclusions. He was tall, yeah, but he didn't look like a
   basketball player. He didn't act like a basketball player. And just
   because he hung around with a lot of basketball players and sometimes
   wore flashy jewelry, that didn't necessarily mean he was one, y'know?"

   "Oh, please--I knew it all along," former Jazz teammate John Stockton
   said. "I mean, just look at the way he dressed--basketball jersey,
   mesh shorts, sneakers... There was, in my opinion, no doubt that he
   was, at least a little bit. Just because he was homosexual doesn't
   mean he couldn't be a basketball player."

   In his book, Amaechi states that he even hid his occupation from his
   parents because he "came from a traditional British household" and his
   parents would not have approved of their son being an NBA player.
   Amaechi admits he was constantly worried during the Jazz's nationally
   televised playoff series with the Sacramento Kings in 2002, because
   cameras panning over to the bench could have revealed to his family
   and friends at home that he was in the NBA.

   "The last thing you want is for them to find out that way," said
   Amaechi, who claims his parents have been "very supportive and
   accepting, although they don't understand why someone would want that
   kind of life."

   "I think Coach [Jerry Sloan] knew," said Amaechi, adding that Sloan
   treated him differently than his teammates, most of whom played
   significantly more minutes. "And, I am sure that some of the diehard
   fans, the ones who came to every game and stayed even when we were
   getting blown out, I think they knew."

   "But what hurt the most was that I didn't feel comfortable around my
   own teammates," he added. "And if I had told them I was a basketball
   player, I don't think they would have accepted it, or even believed
   it."

   The response to Amaechi's announcement around the league has ranged
   from complete indifference to unconditional support.

   "I can't believe I showered with that guy," said former Jazz teammate
   Karl Malone, who played with Amaechi for two seasons.  "I mean, it's
   just weird. I really think I would have remembered something like
   that."

   "Good for him," said Houston Rockets shooting guard Tracy McGrady, who
   played with Amaechi when he was on the Orlando Magic. "You know, I
   wish he would have come out earlier. Like in the third quarter of some
   games. Maybe he wasn't the best gay basketball player I've ever seen,
   but we could have used another big man in the lineup."

   Though he refused to name names, Amaechi said that he knows other men
   out there who, unsuspected by the world, are also living secret lives
   as professional basketball players.

   "I just hope my new book will inspire them to come out when they
   retire," Amaechi added. "Despite the way we're portrayed in the media,
   and in spite of the way we're treated by the world at large, being an
   NBA player is nothing to be ashamed of."


   The Democrats' resounding midterm election triumph--sweeping both
   houses of Congress, as well as a majority of state legislatures and
   governorships--immediately bred suspicion among party leadership that
   Karl Rove, President Bush's closest adviser and the political
   mastermind behind Bush's rise to power, was once again pulling the
   strings.
   [4]Enlarge Image Karl Rove R 

   "Let's not celebrate just yet," Democratic National Committee Chairman
   Howard Dean said on Nov. 8, shortly after the more closely contested
   seats were declared in the Democrats' favor. "This decisive Democratic
   victory could very well be part of an unfathomably brilliant plan of
   Karl Rove's to position the Republicans for the 2016 elections, and
   probably beyond. History has shown that the man is an unstoppable evil
   genius. You can't underestimate him."

   Rove, who has consistently proven himself over the last 12 years to be
   the only person in Washington capable of affecting national elections,
   refused to comment.

   "We were blindsided when he gave us the House, but then Rove really
   twisted the knife with the Senate victory," CNN's Paul Begala said.
   "Evidently, he must be five or six steps ahead on the chessboard,
   executing a strategy we can only guess at."

   Political watchdog groups said that Rove left too many obvious clues.
   They pointed to the breaking of the Mark Foley sex scandal, the Jack
   Abramoff lobbying scandal, the political downfall of House Majority
   Leader Tom DeLay, the refusal of embattled Speaker Of The House Dennis
   Hastert and Secretary Of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to step down, and the
   deaths of hundreds of U.S. soldiers in Iraq since the 2004
   presidential election. Even the escalating civil insurrection in Iraq
   "sports the trademark Rove touch," in the words of one blogger for the
   political website The Huffington Post.

   "For a little while there, it looked like Rove's nefarious master plan
   might be undone by Kerry's bungled remarks about the troops, but it
   succeeded anyway," New York Times columnist Paul Krugman said.
   "Unless, of course, Kerry's remarks were all part of the plan, too."

   Still others have posited a second Rove involvement theory, in which
   they believe he predicted a Republican victory two weeks' prior to
   Election Day so he could bet heavily on a Democratic victory and make
   "an enormous killing in Vegas." They speculate Rove then either kept
   the winnings for himself or funneled them into a GOP slush fund.

   Rove did not return calls concerning these charges.

   "Can't people see we're playing right into this man's hands?"
   Democratic Congressional Campaign Chairman Rep. Rahm Emanuel (D-IL)
   said. "The fact that he did not address this issue publicly proves his
   collusion. Leave it to Rove to poison a victory this sweet."


   NAGANO, JAPAN--Mere hours after eating what he claims to be his
   "farewell meal" Tuesday, longtime consumer of comestible goods Takeru
   Kobayashi formally announced that, after a career that has spanned
   nearly his entire lifetime, he has decided to walk away from eating
   food.
   [4]Enlarge Image Kobayashi 

   "My physical gifts, including my God-given ability to ingest food, are
   still there, but my passion for it is not," said a gaunt, visibly
   fatigued Kobayashi, speaking through his interpreter in a barely
   audible whisper. "Yes, chewing and swallowing food has always played
   an important part in my life, and if I'd never done it, I probably
   wouldn't be here today. But after nearly 30 years, I am tired of
   eating."

   "I used to eat because I wanted to, but lately it seems like I only do
   it because I feel like I have to," added Kobayashi, who claims that he
   was in the middle of eating his 52nd barbecue chicken wing last week
   when he realized he no longer possessed the same hunger he did earlier
   in his career. "I knew it was time to step aside and give others the
   chance to eat."

   The announcement has come as a shock to those close to the Japanese
   star, who claim that for Kobayashi, eating was more than just a
   hobby--that a powerful, mysterious force deep inside of him compelled
   him to eat. Many expected him to continue eating until the day he
   died.

   "Takeru used to live, breathe, and eat food," said Hideki Ihara,
   Kobayashi's uncle. "Not a day went by that he didn't eat. He based his
   whole day around it. He'd be down in the kitchen every morning at the
   crack of dawn, squeezing in an early meal. He'd be the last one at the
   dinner table each night. In fact, he loved it so much that he would
   leave his job in the middle of the day and spend his lunch hour eating
   food. Now that's dedication."

   "I don't know how he's going to survive without eating," Ihara added.

   According to Kobayashi, the transition from a life of eating to one of
   not eating has not been easy.

   "Do I still crave food? Of course--usually about three times per day,"
   Kobayashi said. "There are times when the thought of never eating
   again really hurts. There are times when it burns, times when it
   aches, times when it induces fainting, and times when my blood
   pressure suddenly drops and I experience heart palpitations for two
   straight minutes. Like any change in life, it's going to be an
   adjustment."

   Kobayashi also said that, because he was born into a family of
   lifelong food-eaters, he was afraid to explore other career paths
   throughout his life, believing that doing so might upset his parents.

   "I've been eating ever since I was in diapers," Kobayashi said. "My
   parents encouraged me to start eating at a very young age, although
   they sometimes forced me to eat things I did not want."

   "After 29 years, I'd like to try some new things, like kayaking,
   mountain climbing, or ingesting liquids," he added.

   Although Kobayashi's friends are happy for him, they have expressed
   concern for his well-being, claiming that he has appeared listless,
   depressed, and seems to be wasting away since his retirement. Some
   think that the decision to give up eating may even have long-term
   effects on Kobayashi's health.

   "Ever since he retired from eating, it's like part of him is gone,"
   Kobayashi's friend Tsuyoshi Hasegawa said. "Specifically, the part of
   the brain that regulates autonomic activities and heat sensitivity."

   Despite his family members pleading with him at his bedside to
   reconsider his decision, Kobayashi maintains that he "[does] not want
   to become one of those washed-up guys who doesn't know when to quit
   and ends up having to eat through a straw."

   "There are things about eating that I will miss--the sandwiches, the
   hard-boiled eggs, the satisfying feeling you get after replenishing
   your body's nutrients, and especially the fried dumplings," Kobayashi
   said. "And there are certain things about eating I won't miss--mostly
   the hot dogs."


   NORTHFIELD, IL--In an effort to reach out to a segment of the
   population completely ignored by the company for more than a century,
   Kraft Foods unveiled Monday its new line of Kraft Doubles--jointly
   wrapped slices of American cheese specially designed with couples in
   mind.

   "After years of catering exclusively to depressed, lonely men in their
   30s, Kraft is proud to present a product for people who are capable of
   experiencing love and happiness," Kraft CEO Irene Rosenfeld said at a
   press conference. "No longer will couples who have a mutual craving
   for processed American cheese have to endure the hassle of unwrapping
   two individual slices."
   [4]Enlarge Image Kraft Doubles 

   Kraft's newest cheese product has mended troubled relationships.

   According to Rosenfeld, the Kraft Doubles will be packaged side by
   side in the brand's iconic twice-folded cellophane sheath. Once the
   rectangular orange product has been removed from its wrapper, lovers
   can easily separate the slices into two equal portions by carefully
   tearing along the perforated line in the center of the Double. At this
   point, it is recommended couples gingerly roll up the slices and feed
   them to each another.

   "Kraft Doubles are the perfect snack for any romantic occasion,
   including picnics in the park, moonlit strolls along the beach, and
   sexual intercourse," Rosenfeld said. "Finally, the great taste of
   Kraft American cheese and the feeling of warmth that comes from tender
   affection with another human being can be enjoyed simultaneously."

   "This Valentine's Day, give her the gift that says, 'This cheese is
   for us,'" Rosenfeld added, before assuring consumers that despite the
   new packaging, the cheese product will retain its classic cheese-like
   taste.

   Kraft reportedly decided to launch the new product after reviewing
   market research which showed that only 8 percent of its regular
   customers reported having a spouse, a significant other, any history
   of dating, or a normal and healthy social life. Marketing director
   David Merrill believes these low numbers are due to the fact that
   there has historically been only one cheese slice inside each wrapper.

   "Who wants to sit down to an elegant candlelit dinner with their
   lover, and next to the wine and the caviar see two individually
   wrapped squares of yellow cheese?" Merrill said. "When two people who
   love each other peel off the laminated-foil casing of a pasteurized
   cheese-food product, they want what's inside to reflect their
   everlasting union."

   Merrill went on to note that Kraft Doubles are best when paired with a
   light red wine such as a pinot noir.
   [5]Enlarge Image Kraft Date 

   A new ad bills Kraft Doubles as "the perfect way to tell the one you
   love you're ready for another 25 years."

   Kraft research also suggested that the small percentage of couples who
   do purchase Kraft Singles often report that the product does not
   satisfy their needs as both consumers and lovers. Kraft vice president
   Jane Hilk theorizes that, until now, every time a couple hungered for
   American cheese, they would attempt to split a Kraft Single down the
   middle, inevitably resulting in uneven cheese distribution, which in
   turn has led to arguments, domestic abuse, and, in some cases,
   divorce.

   "This is the world's first adjoined-cheese-slice product that's both
   practical and sexy," Hilk said. "Just think how many relationships
   Kraft Doubles will save."

   Hilk noted that Kraft Doubles are not strictly for couples, but also
   for single men with a big appetite and a busy schedule.

   "For the successful bachelor who hasn't had time to settle down but
   still hopes to some day, there is an added advantage," Hilk continued.
   "Should a woman he fancies ever enter his home and peer into his
   refrigerator's dairy drawer, she will know right away that he is a man
   who values commitment."

   If the new product is as popular as Kraft projects, the company plans
   to expand its line in 2009 to include the new family-sized Kraft
   Quadruples, as well as the Kraft Super-Single, which is one
   three-inch-thick slice of American cheese.


   DAYTON, OH--In a decision that senior partner Bob Davis called "long
   overdue," local law firm Davis, Cassini & Snyder confirmed Tuesday its
   intentions to purchase one of those big leather chairs--the
   burgundy-colored ones with the gold buttons and the thick, fancy
   armrests--sometime in the upcoming weeks.
   [4]Enlarge Image The chair 

   The chair, with the gold buttons and everything.

   Despite the prior acquisition of several big wooden legal bookshelves,
   a half-dozen of those gold-colored desk lamps with the green plastic
   panels covering the light bulbs, and several portraits of
   serious-looking lawyers and judges from the 1800s, the office has
   reportedly lacked a big leather chair since its opening in 2005.

   "We are eagerly anticipating the arrival of the chair," junior partner
   John Cassini told reporters. "As a respectable law firm, the office of
   Davis, Cassini & Snyder needs an expensive leather chair that doesn't
   swivel, raise, or lower, but just sits there in the office."

   Cassini stated that he couldn't describe the exact name or brand of
   chair he was referring to, but confirmed that he had sat in a similar
   chair before. He further insisted that, as a registered member of the
   bar, he would "definitely know one if [he] saw it," and that a lot of
   law offices have them.

   The decision to purchase the chair, office sources said, came after
   Bob Davis made a visit to the nearby law firm Berkman & Berkman. Davis
   reported back to his associates that the rival firm had one of those
   leather chairs where the material "poofs out" due to the indents in
   the fabric, thereby creating what Davis referred to as the chair's
   signature diamond-shaped leather pouches.

   "It also had the gold buttons that embroider the armrests," said
   Davis, who later went on to note Berkman & Berkman's recent courtroom
   success. "And the [big leather] chair had that claw-foot design on its
   legs."

   "Great chair," he added.

   Davis told reporters that, as senior partner, the final decision on
   the chair would ultimately go through him, but that he planned to
   delegate the responsibility of locating the chair to the firm's
   administrative assistant, Kathy Plaitano.

   "I told Kathy that if she is having trouble finding exactly what we
   want, she should watch The Firm or Philadelphia," Davis said. "Those
   movies definitely have the kind of chairs we're talking about."

   According to members of the legal team, even if the chair Plaitano
   finds fulfills the requirements for both color and seat width, the
   firm will not, under any circumstance, accept a leather chair that has
   metal legs, is on wheels, or has a medium-height back.

   In addition, the attorneys were adamant that any potential client who
   sits in the chair should "sink in just a little" so that only the
   individual's head would be visible if someone was to approach the
   chair from behind.

   "It has to be that kind of chair," Cassini said. "We won't settle for
   anything less."

   Though the attorneys unanimously agreed to purchase the chair,
   concerns have been raised as to the chair's ultimate location in the
   office.

   "If I know Davis, he'll want to put it in the waiting room next to the
   fern," Snyder said. "But if it's the kind of chair I'm thinking of, I
   think we should put it across from my desk to give my clients a nice
   place to sit during their appointments."

   Davis and Cassini refused to respond to Snyder's statement, but when
   pressed for comment stated that it might be in the law firm's best
   interest to purchase more than one chair.

