
   How prisoners pay scandalously high rates 

   TOP of the list of complaints of many of Britain's prisoners is not
   the snoring of their cellmates, nor the quality of the food, but the
   difficulty and expense of making telephone calls. Mobiles are
   forbidden (though many inmates possess them), and most prisoners have
   only two hours a day in which they may use the payphones. These are
   limited in number and often broken, and the queues tend to be long.
   The charges are high, too. The minimum rate for a call to any United
   Kingdom land-line number is 10p, which buys 55 seconds of chat, after
   which it is 1p for every 5.5 seconds. To call a mobile costs 19-65p
   per minute. These rates are less egregious than those charged by other
   providers to many hospital patients, who are similarly unable to shop
   around. But they are higher than in public call boxes and for
   prisoners, whose average wage is £8 a week, they are mountainous.

   Then inmates had better stay silent, is one response: those who commit
   crimes must expect to forfeit access to the conveniences of modern
   life. The counter-argument is, in the words of Charles Clarke, a
   recent home secretary, that an offender "is much less likely to
   reoffend if he feels part of a family and community, from which he
   receives support as well as owes obligations". As it is, 45% of
   prisoners lose contact with their families during their sentence.

   In some ways, visits would be better than calls. But such is the
   overcrowded state of British prisons that last year male inmates were,
   on average, held 50 miles (80km) from home and women 58 miles. For the
   10,700 or so prisoners imprisoned more than 100 miles from home,
   visits were even more difficult.

   Prison telephones in England, Wales and Northern Ireland are run by
   BT, which won the contract from the Prison Service in 1998. BT has
   unusual costs in that the prison phone system is small and must allow
   the monitoring of calls. It points out that it won the tender against
   competition, and that anyway the Prison Service sets the rates.

   Critics, however, say the charges could, and should, be renegotiated.
   Telecoms rates have generally fallen in the past ten years but in
   prisons are fixed until the contract ends in 2011. And prisoners have
   no choice but to use BT.

   Protests have so far been to no avail. With the backing of the prisons
   ombudsman, a prisoner has been trying to get the Prison Service to
   lower its charges, saying his rights to respect for family life,
   codified under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights,
   have been infringed. But in November a High Court judge ruled against
   him.

   Bad news for prisoners, certainly, and especially for the many
   illiterates among them (82% have the writing ability expected of an
   11-year-old) and for the 14% who are foreigners (calls abroad are even
   more expensive than domestic ones). But the innocent, too, are
   victims. As a report from several prison charities this week points
   out, 160,000 children each year have a parent who is sent to jail.
   That is more than the number of children whose parents get divorced.
   Nearly a third of these children suffer from mental-health problems.

   It's good to talk, as BT used to say. Too bad if you, or your dad,
   can't afford to.


                                                                       PA

                                     PA

   The Conservatives are doing well, but not well enough

   [3]David Cameron

   DAVID CAMERON, who marked his second anniversary as leader of the
   Conservative Party on December 6th, knows the wisdom of at least one
   of Westminster's ancient maxims. A week really is a long time in
   politics: at the start of his party's conference in October, he looked
   likely to lose the snap election that Gordon Brown, riding high as
   prime minister, was expected to call; by its end, he had regained a
   momentum that has yet to desert him.

   He must now hope that another grizzled saying is true: that
   oppositions don't win elections, governments lose them. Recent events
   have compromised the government's claims to competence (the taxman
   lost the personal data of millions of citizens) and probity (a
   party-funding scandal forced the resignation of Labour's general
   secretary). Labour's support has fallen to about 33% (see chart). Yet
   the Tories have not pulled away decisively: they are polling at around
   40%, which is short of both the 45% mark that Mr Cameron has made his
   party's target and the 60% that Labour scored under Tony Blair in
   1995. Labour then was more than 30 points ahead of the governing
   Tories; today the Tories are less than ten points ahead of Labour.

   Conservatives note that they face a stronger government than Sir John
   Major's. None of its recent mistakes has been as ruinous for voters as
   the recession of the early 1990s. Neither is it as exhausted of ideas:
   Sir John never produced anything as vaulting as the children's plan
   unveiled on December 11th.

   Yet the Tories must raise their game. Thanks to uneven constituency
   sizes, the Tories need more votes than Labour to win the same number
   of parliamentary seats; their current poll ratings do not suggest that
   they would gain a majority. And if Mr Brown's failure to call a snap
   election hurt him politically, it also raised the bar for Mr Cameron.
   A narrower Labour majority would have been a fine result this autumn;
   a Tory victory is expected in an election in 2009 or 2010. But why,
   given Labour's woes, are the Tories not out of sight?

   One reason may be a lack of high-calibre people. Tories insist they
   are a match for Labour in key positions. None of their top four--Mr
   Cameron, George Osborne, the shadow chancellor, William Hague, the
   shadow foreign secretary, and David Davis, the shadow home
   secretary--is outclassed by his Labour opposite number. But lower down
   is a problem. Mr Cameron is said to be disappointed at the number of
   cabinet-worthy MPs at his disposal.

   Another factor is the Tories' perceived fuzziness on policy. A row
   over selective grammar schools began a bad summer for the party. Talk
   of the voluntary sector playing a bigger role in delivering public
   services lacks flesh. And foreign-policy views seem less clearly
   defined than Labour's before 1997, when Mr Blair held ambitions to
   make Britain an unambiguously European nation.

   Yet much policy wonkery is going on behind the scenes. Commissions set
   up to investigate public services, social justice, competitiveness,
   the environment, the constitution and security have reported back,
   often in epic detail. Green papers have been produced on school reform
   and energy; more are scheduled. An implementation unit is being
   created to examine how policies can be put into practice in
   government. Only within Mr Brown's economic remit was such exhaustive
   work done when Labour was in opposition.

   Indeed, if Mr Cameron's first year at the Tory helm saw style
   privileged over substance, the party may now have lurched too far in
   the opposite direction. Energy expended on policy detail is energy not
   spent articulating an animating vision of how the country would be
   transformed by a Tory government. Even Mr Cameron's supporters concede
   that he is better at conveying competence and reasonableness than at
   rousing passion for change.

   The Tories also face a challenge from the Liberal Democrats, who
   announce their new leader on December 17th. Either Nick Clegg, their
   home-affairs spokesman, or Chris Huhne, who holds the environment
   brief, will make a pitch to those voters disillusioned with Labour but
   sceptical about whether the Tories have changed. Many such voters are
   outside the south-east, the Tories' natural home. Mr Cameron's appeal
   in marginal constituencies in the midlands and the north has yet to be
   tested, though Tories point hopefully to results in the local
   elections in May.

   Other hazards remain. One is Boris Johnson, the party's popular but
   disorganised candidate in London's mayoral election next May. Party
   staff are concerned that a lazy campaign ending in a heavy defeat by
   Ken Livingstone, the Labour incumbent, would reflect badly on Mr
   Cameron. Some believe a victory for Mr Johnson would be even worse, if
   he turned out to be a shambolic leader of Britain's capital.

   Another is the possibility of a right-wing revanche. Mr Cameron's
   modernising creed has not put down deep roots within his party: many
   MPs and activists only tolerated a move to the centre because it
   seemed a winning strategy. That the party's recent recovery began with
   a promise to lift millions of households out of the inheritance-tax
   net may embolden them to start asking for more of the same.

   It may be that the government's various troubles--perhaps including an
   economic downturn next year--will be enough to hand the Tories the
   next election. Mr Cameron would be unwise to count on it.


                                                             Steve OBrien

                                Steve OBrien

   Why an online petition has caused trouble for the government on two
   fronts

   IN POLITICS, as in life, good intentions are not enough. In pursuit of
   two perfectly decent ideas--the need to tackle traffic congestion by
   some form of road pricing and the desire to make itself appear more
   open to consultation--the government has created nothing but trouble
   for itself.

   The immediate cause is an "e-petition" on the 10 Downing Street
   [3]website that by midweek had attracted nearly 1.5m signatures. The
   petition demands that the government abandon proposals to establish a
   national vehicle-tracking system that would be used to tax motorists
   every time they drove their cars. Through exaggeration and distortion
   the petition has rather brilliantly united the motoring, anti-tax and
   civil-liberties lobbies.

   When the deadline for signing the petition is reached on February
   20th, it will be politely rejected--Tony Blair has said he will send
   an e-mail to every signatory--and the newspapers which helped drum up
   support for it will rant about the government's arrogant disdain for
   public opinion. But two good causes, doing something to unclog
   Britain's overcrowded roads and experimenting with new forms of
   participatory democracy, will both have been set back unless some
   lessons are learned.

   First, the government needs to acknowledge that its attempts to sell
   road pricing have been pretty woeful. Its first mistake was to attach
   too much significance to Ken Livingstone's introduction of congestion
   charging in part of central London. Having implemented the scheme in
   the teeth of local opposition and government scepticism, Mr
   Livingstone secured his re-election as London's mayor when traffic
   initially flowed better and bus services were improved with the money
   raised. Mr Blair, no mean Livingstone-hater in the past, was dewy-eyed
   with admiration.

   Unfortunately, on the eve of the charging zone's extension westward,
   doubts about how much it has achieved are growing. This week Transport
   for London, the mayor's own transport body, was forced to admit that
   congestion is only 8% lower than it was before the charge was
   introduced. TfL thinks the extension is likely to make things even
   worse because of residents' discounts within the expanded zone. The
   government also conveniently forgot that Londoners rely far less on
   their cars than people elsewhere in the country and those who use them
   regularly tend to be richer.

   Among the government's other mistakes was failing to counter the
   impression that it wanted to set up a national surveillance network to
   monitor every driver and that many people who depended on their cars
   would literally be taxed out of them. Nor has the disappearance into
   the Treasury maw of the revenues from this month's doubling of
   air-passenger duty helped. It only confirmed suspicions that the
   government would use any excuse to dig its hand deeper into the
   public's wallet.

   The attempt to portray itself as a "listening" government has been
   equally inept. Much of the Downing Street website is informative and
   serious. But online petitions of the kind the site has invited since
   last November are neither. Indeed, petitions are one of the worst
   possible ways of drawing the public into the political process. By
   their nature, they encourage single-issue campaigners and a crudely
   binary approach to complex issues which require the reconciliation of
   contradictory interests.

   The road-pricing petition tells us that many people want neither to
   pay more for driving nor to feel they are being spied on when they use
   their cars, and that lots of them are willing to spend one minute
   protesting about it. What the petition doesn't do is provide any clue
   as to how journey times should be speeded up to the benefit of both
   individuals and the economy.

   The problem is that although everyone seems to agree there is a
   "crisis of disengagement" from politics--as shown by low voter turnout
   and fading identification with political parties--convincing solutions
   are in short supply. The government is sponsoring "Digital Dialogues",
   an investigation by the independent Hansard Society into ways in which
   the internet can be used to consult voters and "internal stakeholders"
   over aspects of government policy. Last year, however, a report on
   declining political engagement, dubbed the Power inquiry, recognised
   that "popular cynicism towards public consultation is very strong",
   though it gamely argued that all public bodies should nonetheless
   consult the public in their decision-making.

   One possible answer is to cultivate more direct forms of
   participation. The Power inquiry teamed up with a London council to
   give local residents a direct role in setting the following year's
   budget. The "open-budget" assembly in Harrow attracted about 300
   participants to six hours of deliberation on a Sunday afternoon.
   Nearly everyone involved thought the event a success, but the kind of
   people who will give up part of their weekend to debating how much
   money should be spent on collecting rubbish are probably pretty
   engaged in the first place.

   Local will do for now

   Another recommendation by the Power inquiry, taken up this week by a
   rightish think-tank, the Centre for Policy Studies, is that ordinary
   Britons should have the same right to initiate legislation through
   referendums as citizens in 24 American states and many European
   countries, most famously Switzerland. David Cameron, the Tory leader,
   is said to be interested and the chancellor, Gordon Brown, who wants
   to show he is not the top-down micro-manager depicted by his enemies,
   could be too.

   Whether such alien notions can be transplanted to Britain is
   questionable. But what is most wrong with the British version of
   representative democracy is its extreme over-centralisation. What
   other country would even be thinking about a "national" road-pricing
   scheme? Never mind direct democracy: most Britons would probably be
   happy with just a little more democracy that was genuinely local.


   Why the government keeps on losing records

   FOR many years Britain's tiny band of civil libertarians have been
   trying to alert their countrymen to the danger of proliferating
   government databases, which allow bureaucrats to share citizens'
   information among themselves with the minimum of fuss. A string of
   recent blunders have made their case more powerfully than years of
   lobbying. The latest to emerge has been the loss earlier this year of
   3m driving-test records held at a data centre in Iowa.

   That unwelcome disclosure was made on December 17th, just after
   Alistair Darling, the chancellor of the exchequer, had published a
   preliminary report into a much bigger mistake. A month earlier, in a
   charged parliamentary session, a shaken Mr Darling revealed that the
   Treasury's tax agency, HMRC, had managed to lose two CDs containing
   the records of 25m child-benefit claimants in the post. The
   information included names, dates of birth and bank-account
   details--everything an identity thief needs--and is reckoned to be the
   world's second-biggest data blunder.

   Mr Darling portrayed the loss as an unfortunate lapse by a junior
   official that breached security guidelines. But in the weeks since the
   revelation that has become a harder line to sell. After the loss of
   the discs HMRC sent out a letter of apology to everyone affected. But
   in its haste the tax authority made another mistake: the letters, many
   of which will have missed their intended recipients, contained much
   more personal information than was necessary to apologise. Tax
   officials have admitted that data have disappeared from their offices
   on eight occasions since 2005. A separate internal review of HMRC,
   also published on December 17th, made what amounts to scathing
   criticisms of the agency's management, albeit couched in bland
   official-speak.

   Other government departments have had their embarrassments, too. A
   technical glitch allowed online visa applicants to see their fellow
   applicants' details; a similar error allowed job-seeking junior
   doctors to read their rivals' applications as well as their own. The
   catalogue of mishaps has spurred ministers to promise reforms,
   including compulsory encryption, simpler management at HMRC and
   tougher penalties for those who break the law in the most egregious
   ways.

   Tougher sanctions may help, but much of the battle will be cultural.
   Richard Thomas, the information commissioner, told a parliamentary
   committee earlier in December that the weight of bad publicity was at
   last having an effect, and that data rules were starting to be
   followed more scrupulously. Not everyone agrees. "Not many people, and
   not many organisations, take data protection fabulously seriously,"
   says James Mitchell, a data-protection lawyer. Part of the reason, he
   says, is weak penalties under British laws.

   Others see a more fundamental problem. The Foundation for Information
   Policy Research points out that data losses are an inevitable
   consequence of the government's determination to build massive
   databases to keep tabs on its citizens. And despite the embarrassments
   of the past few weeks, it shows no sign of abandoning the biggest
   project of all: its plan to introduce identity cards for everyone.




   Gordon Brown struggles to keep his footing as another crisis erupts

   [3]Gordon Brown

   TONY BLAIR, after years as Britain's prime minister, remarked recently
   that religion and politics don't mix: a leader who invokes his faith
   is, he lamented, considered a "nutter". For his successor, Gordon
   Brown, reconciling politics and God must seem a breeze compared with
   reconciling politics and money. Less than two months after the police
   dropped investigations into whether parties had offered peerages in
   exchange for loans, another money scandal is gripping Westminster.

   The latest is a labyrinthine affair, and potentially devastating for
   Mr Brown. Since 2003 David Abrahams, a property developer from the
   north-east, has donated a total of over £650,000 ($1.3m) to the Labour
   Party through intermediaries including two employees, the wife of
   another and his solicitor. He claims to have done this to protect his
   privacy but, under the tighter rules introduced by this government,
   making donations in someone else's name is unlawful. On November 26th
   Peter Watt, the general secretary of the Labour Party, admitted that
   he knew about the arrangement, and resigned. Mr Brown, who claims not
   to have known, has promised to return the money.

   Unfortunately for Labour, the mess does not stop there. On November
   27th it emerged that Jon Mendelsohn, the party's chief fundraiser and
   recruited in September by Mr Brown himself, knew of Mr Abrahams's
   indirect donations too, although he was unhappy about them.

   Questions have also arisen about contributions during the contest for
   Labour's deputy leadership last summer. Janet Kidd, Mr Abrahams's
   secretary, gave £5,000 to Hilary Benn, one of the candidates, who
   returned it after being tipped off that Mr Abrahams was the real
   source of the money. Mr Benn then took the same sum from Mr Abrahams
   directly. But Harriet Harman, the winning candidate, did accept a
   £5,000 donation from Ms Kidd, apparently without realising its true
   provenance. The spectacle of a donor giving money to different
   candidates under different names is odd enough; many wonder how Ms
   Harman could not have known what Mr Benn knew. The question is acute
   as she is married to Labour's treasurer, Jack Dromey, who says that he
   too was out of the loop. She is returning the money but Mr Brown's
   support for her has so far been nuanced.

   Others are being dragged in too. In 2006 the Highways Agency lifted
   its block on a planning application for a new commercial centre in the
   north-east to be built by associates of Mr Abrahams. The government
   denies that ministers played any role in the decision, but promises to
   investigate the matter.

   Party-finance rows are not confined to the Labour Party: the
   Conservatives received more money in undeclared loans before the last
   general election than Labour did, and the Liberal Democrats took money
   from a convicted perjurer. Indeed, it is due in part to Labour's
   efforts to make the system more transparent that chicanery is now
   evident. But whatever the context, a law has been broken. The
   Electoral Commission is investigating further and has consulted the
   Crown Prosecution Service. A police investigation may follow.

   The funding fiasco has hit a prime minister who was already short of
   political capital. Mr Brown's honeymoon with the electorate was at its
   dreamiest during the Labour Party conference in September. Since then
   he has endured the botched handling of a possible snap election, the
   messy rescue of Northern Rock, a mortgage lender, and the loss by the
   customs and revenue office of 25m people's personal data. His
   reputation for competence has suffered horribly; he cannot now afford
   to lose his reputation for probity.

   A Major legacy

   Mr Brown is often likened to William Gladstone for his intellect and
   compares himself to Margaret Thatcher as a conviction politician. The
   analogy that commentators now draw with Sir John Major, the most
   recent Tory prime minister, will hurt. Mr Brown's premiership is not
   yet doomed, as Sir John's was, to be a fire-fighting postscript to
   that of a more illustrious predecessor. Sir John suffered a steady
   trickle of bad news over several years; Mr Brown has had a
   concentrated deluge of disasters, and the weather may improve as
   suddenly as it worsened. Unlike Sir John, he leads a stable government
   with a comfortable majority in Parliament. And whereas Sir John's
   opposition turned his woes into unassailable poll leads, the Tories
   have not yet definitively raced over the horizon.

   Yet in other ways Mr Brown's fate may be worse than Sir John's. The
   latter at least won an election (and by a good margin in the popular
   vote, though not in parliamentary seats). Ever fewer pundits believe
   Mr Brown will do the same. And Sir John left a tangible legacy. The
   economic expansion that continues to this day began under him, as did
   the fall in crime. He introduced market reforms into the public
   sector, and even his policy towards the European Union (remaining
   outside the euro but sufficiently involved to push for eastward
   expansion) has been broadly vindicated.

   By contrast, it is hard to know how Britain will be different after Mr
   Brown's time in office, though this is partly because he has already
   served a decade as chancellor of the exchequer. He harbours a few big
   ideas, such as extending the school-leaving age to 18, but seems
   disappointingly keen on diluting Mr Blair's promising public-service
   reforms. A sense of direction enables governments to stay on their
   feet when times are tough. Mr Brown must acquire one if his
   premiership is to recover.


   Worries over biofuels could work to Britain's advantage

   SIR RICHARD BRANSON, the bearded billionaire who founded Virgin
   Atlantic, is fond of surprises. Next month his airline plans to
   test-fly an aircraft that is partly powered by biofuels, something
   most experts thought was years away. From April Sir Richard's
   countrymen will begin filling their cars with a blend of petrol and
   biofuel, as part of the government's plan to ensure that 5% of
   Britain's transport runs on fuel made from plants by 2010.

   Transport accounts for around 20% of Britain's planet-warming carbon
   emissions. In theory biofuels produce low net emissions of carbon
   dioxide, since burning them merely recycles atmospheric carbon
   absorbed by the plant as it was growing. Others like them for
   different reasons. Farmers hope that growing crops to put in petrol
   tanks will be more profitable than growing them to put on dinner
   tables, and the prospect of domestic production appeals to politicians
   who are worried about energy security.

   Yet even as their star has risen at Westminster, biofuels have been
   raising doubts among greens. Friends of the Earth and Greenpeace, two
   environmental-lobbying groups, have given warning that biofuels may
   not be as eco-friendly as they seem. On January 14th a more august
   body took a similar line. The Royal Society, Britain's national
   science academy, published a report that analysed the bewildering
   range of biofuels on the market. It concluded that, thanks to carbon
   emissions from fertilisers and processing, some biofuels may cause
   more climate change than petrol. That raises the risk of a spectacular
   official own-goal: if targets encourage people to use the wrong sort
   of fuel, transport may get dirtier, not cleaner. The Royal Society
   wants ministers to specify targets not for biofuel consumption but for
   greenhouse-gas reduction. The government says it may do that after
   2010.

   Hopes that biofuels could boost farmers' income and improve energy
   security seem even more ephemeral. Dank, cloudy and small, Britain is
   ill-suited to mass production of the fast-growing crops favoured by
   the biofuel industry. For crops to provide even 5% of the fuel used in
   transport would require using huge swathes of arable land (see chart).
   "As far as actually growing things is concerned, I don't think it'll
   ever be big in Britain," says Lord Oxburgh, the head of D1 Oils, a
   biofuels firm.

   Even if Britain can't farm its way to green transport, some
   businessmen hope to turn a profit on biofuels by drawing on more
   reliable British skills. The Royal Society argues for a strict
   worldwide certification system, similar to that used for eco-friendly
   wood, to let consumers know just how green a particular biofuel is.
   Developing such a system would require exhaustive analysis of every
   step of a firm's supply chain. That's just the sort of thing that the
   City's legions of auditors and accountants would be good at--if they
   can get countries such as America and Brazil, both fiercely protective
   of their indigenous biofuels industries, to agree.


   Trade is booming--and busting up families

   THE discreet sign and dimly-lit staircase are not promising; nor is
   the silence that greets your correspondent when he interrupts a dozen
   Somali men to ask if this is the place to buy qat. But around the
   back, along a terrace and up another flight of stairs, sits a happy
   circle of youths, surrounded by discarded plant stems and beaming
   deliriously.

   This is a mafresh, where people come to chew the leaves of Catha
   edulis, a celebrated east African shrub with narcotic properties
   similar to amphetamine. The leaves, known as qat, contain the
   stimulants cathinone and cathine, rendering them illegal in America,
   Canada and most of Europe.

   Not so in Britain, which treats the plant as a harmless vegetable and
   allows its unrestricted import, export and sale. This is good news for
   the country's Somali, Yemeni and Ethiopian population, all regular
   chompers (a third of all Somali adults indulge). Demand from these
   communities has created a supply chain bringing bundles of stems from
   Africa to Britain, wrapped in banana leaves to keep them fresh. Their
   potency declines from the moment of harvest, so suppliers pull out all
   the stops to get their product into Britain's mafreshi within 24
   hours.

   The scale of the operation is breathtaking. A Home Office report in
   2005 found that up to seven tonnes of qat is imported into Britain
   every day, mainly from Kenya. A 150-gram portion--a single dose--can
   be bought for £3, which suggests that the British market is worth some
   £51m a year for 17m hits.

   Given that the target community numbers fewer than 200,000 (including
   a lot of children), this is a suspiciously large amount. The
   government reckons much of the stock is for export to markets where it
   is illegal--especially America, where a £3 British bundle can fetch
   ten times that much. Many would-be smugglers are intercepted there at
   customs, but Britain's soft line means they face no punishment when
   sent home.

   Somali women in Britain have long backed a ban, sick of seeing their
   husbands buzz all night and snooze all day. A survey by Nacro, a
   crime-reduction charity, found 57% of Somali women thought qat chewers
   made bad fathers. "My brother does not hold on to jobs because he is
   up all night chewing," was one typical response. In the same survey,
   two-thirds of users admitted they had trouble sleeping and half felt
   tired or depressed the morning after a session.

   Despite this, the government last year approved a report recommending
   that the drug remain legal. Prohibition would raise its price, it was
   argued, causing organised criminals to move in and wrench the market
   from local businesses. In any case, the report noted reassuringly, the
   scourge was limited to Somalis and Yemenis, and there was "no evidence
   of qat use in the general population". No need to worry then.


   Britain's penal system is looking less European and more American


   IN THE sunny early days of Gordon Brown's premiership, it seemed for a
   while that a radical change in penal policy was on the horizon. "We
   cannot carry on building prisons indefinitely and we need to look at
   new approaches," Lord Falconer, then the justice minister, had said in
   May. Two months later his successor, Jack Straw, called for a
   "national conversation" about the use of custody. The prison system,
   one of the few public services not yet thoroughly overhauled by
   Labour, looked like a place for Mr Brown to leave his mark.

   That now seems unlikely. On December 5th Mr Straw announced plans to
   build yet more prisons, as recommended in a report that day by Lord
   Carter, a favourite government problem-solver (and once the best man
   at Mr Straw's wedding). With their 81,000 jail places full up, England
   and Wales already lock away more of their population than any western
   European country bar Luxembourg. At a cost of £2.7 billion, Mr Straw
   now plans to add 15,000 more places by 2014.

   No big new jails will be ready until 2010, so until then the
   government will have to rely on quick fixes such as converting an old
   army base and buying a prison ship (embarrassingly, it sold one only
   last year). Once ready, the "Titans", as the big new jails have been
   christened, will hold 2,500 inmates each, making them twice the size
   of Britain's largest existing prisons. A shame, argues Gavin Lockhart
   of Policy Exchange, a think-tank: more small, local jails would have
   kept convicts near their families, helping their rehabilitation.
   Economies of scale seem to have won the day.

   Even the Titans will only just keep pace with the demand for places
   (see chart). If official estimates are right, by 2014 the number of
   people locked up will have doubled in 20 years. To outsiders this
   suggests a country riddled with crime. Yet crime has broadly been
   falling. One of Labour's proudest boasts is that crime has dipped by a
   third since it came to power in 1997 (critics counter that serious
   offences have become more common).

   Prisoner numbers have risen partly because the police are bringing
   more offenders to justice. But the big increase is due to changes in
   sentencing: many petty criminals who once would have been fined are
   now jailed, and serious offenders' sentences are 20% longer than they
   were in 1995. New crime laws have increased the penalties for the
   worst offences, causing sentence inflation across the board.

   Putting a lid on the prison population will mean restraining
   sentences. Lord Carter suggested a way of doing this, too: an
   independent commission that would set sentencing guidelines according
   to prison capacity. At the moment, guidelines are determined by a
   hotch-potch of statute and precedent; the government simply has to
   build however many prisons are required as a result. Under the Carter
   plan, the boot would be on the other foot: sentencing would have to
   take into account the limitations on capacity. So ramping up jail
   terms for violent criminals might only be possible if more shoplifters
   were sentenced to community service, for example.

   Setting sentences according to capacity, rather than vice-versa, could
   be hard to sell to voters, who reflexively believe that crime is
   getting worse and that longer sentences are the answer. The government
   has set up a "working party" to look into the proposal, which may
   spell doom. That would be a wasted chance, says Rob Allen of King's
   College, London. Factoring in the consequences of sentencing is
   sensible as well as humane: "We are making an astonishing investment
   in something of limited social benefit. Prison is an expensive
   resource that ought to be used sparingly."

   Without radical changes, expect many more Titans. As Lord Carter
   notes, the pressure on prison numbers is unlikely to abate. Mr Allen
   is gloomy: "This could be a watershed. We seem to be moving closer
   towards an American model." That is some way off: America still locks
   up five times more of its citizens than Britain does. But the gap is
   narrowing. Since 1995 America's prison population has increased by
   42%, while Britain's has jumped by 60%. In Europe, where numbers were
   already more restrained, Germany's inmates swelled by just 16%, and
   France's by 1%.


                                                            Illustrations

                               Illustrations

   Transport: Would you pay $85,000 for a car you could take into the
   ocean?

   IS IT an aquatic car or a terrestrial boat? The Aquada, a three-seater
   vehicle with wheels that fold up, James Bond-style, is due to go into
   production in 2008 and will sell for around $85,000, according to its
   maker, Gibbs Technologies. In 2004 an early prototype, piloted by
   Richard Branson, a British entrepreneur, became the fastest amphibious
   vehicle ever to cross the English Channel. Powered by a V-6 engine,
   the Aquada is capable of 175kph (110mph) on land and 50kph on water.
   The company's founder and president, Alan Gibbs, wanted to be able to
   drive onto the beach in front of his home in New Zealand, which is
   often inaccessible because of high tides. But Gibbs Technologies'
   chief executive, Neil Jenkins, reckons the Aquada will appeal to a
   broad range of buyers, including urbanites in London or New York, who
   could use the amphibious craft to circumvent traffic-clogged roads.The
   Aquada will be built in America, and several states are vying to
   attract the plant. "Personally, I'd like to do it in Detroit," says Mr
   Gibbs. He hopes to employ 1,500 workers and produce 100,000 vehicles
   within five years. The Aquada certainly has novelty value. But its
   success depends on there being enough paying customers who decide that
   it floats their boat.


   Teachers want more; everyone else wants what they are having


   AFTER a decade of generous pay rises, teachers found the three-year
   pay deal proposed on January 15th by Ed Balls, the schools secretary,
   distinctly underwhelming. On offer is 2.45% extra in 2008-09 and 2.3%
   in each of the following two years. This is far short of the 4%
   teaching unions had said they needed to keep pace with retail-price
   inflation--"in effect a pay cut", growled Steve Sinnott, who leads the
   National Union of Teachers. His executive will be meeting to discuss
   the offer next week and he expects a "robust response".

   The teaching unions' response may be robust; their actions are likely
   to be less so. The deal was better than teachers feared it might be.
   Gordon Brown had called for pay restraint; a "difficult year" for the
   public purse, said the chancellor, Alistair Darling. He urged
   public-sector pay deals of 2%, the government's target for
   consumer-price inflation, its preferred measure.

   And teachers are doing well: their median pay has risen by almost a
   fifth in real terms over the past decade; most can retire on a full,
   final-salary pension at 60; and holidays are longer than in almost any
   other job. Another fact the unions do not tend to point out when
   making comparisons with the private sector, or sweeping statements
   about pay cuts, is that in any given year half of all teachers get
   much more than the headline deal. This is because they move up the
   teachers' pay scale, which boosts their pay packet by another £1,000
   or so. And then there are the sweeteners that have proliferated in
   recent years: retention allowances; golden hellos in shortage
   subjects; performance-related bonuses; extra payments for pastoral
   duties or for working in the big smoke.

   Although teachers may (just about) have been bought off, their pay
   offer could backfire on the government by causing anger in other parts
   of the public sector, where disputes over last year's pay settlements
   are turning into running battles. The bodies reviewing pay for police,
   prison officers and nurses all recommended rises of 2.5% in 2007.
   Unaffordable, said Mr Brown, and phased in the awards, with a mere
   1.5% added to salaries for the first six months and an additional 1%
   afterwards, bringing their value down to 1.9% overall.

   Nurses grumbled, and secured some concessions--only in England was the
   award not eventually paid in full--but concern about patients' welfare
   meant that their hands were tied. Prison officers were less quiescent.
   They pulled out of a voluntary no-strike agreement in protest, and at
   some prisons held wildcat strikes--the first in their association's
   68-year history. The justice secretary, Jack Straw, has threatened to
   make it illegal for prison officers to strike unless the agreement is
   reinstated.

   Angriest of all are the police. Historically, the ban on police
   strikes has been rewarded by the government's willingness to honour
   the recommendations of the body that reviews their pay. The Police
   Federation plans a protest rally in Westminster on January 23rd and a
   ballot of members on whether they want the right to strike. "I have no
   doubt the teachers' ability to take strike action influenced the
   government's decision to pay in full the recommendation of their
   pay-review body," says Jan Berry, the chairman of the federation. More
   than 200 MPs, mostly Labour backbenchers, have signed a House of
   Commons motion calling for the government to give police officers the
   2.5% increase in full.

   On January 16th the government published the recommendations of yet
   another pay review--this time the one that looks at MPs' salaries. The
   country's elected representatives are worth 2.56% more than last year,
   it said. Mr Brown demurs. He wants his right honourable friends to set
   an example to all public servants and settle for a more modest 1.9%,
   paid in two stages. But he cannot force them to do so: MPs have a free
   vote on their own pay (although not for much longer, as the government
   has asked a senior civil servant to recommend a less inflammatory
   alternative).

   That vote is due to be held on January 24th. Its result--far more than
   a fraction of a percentage point for teachers or police officers--will
   set the tone for pay negotiations right across the public sector.


   Voters like the idea of tougher borders, but the cost is high and the
   benefits are limited

   ILLEGAL migrants risk their lives to better themselves. Europeans are
   more aware of Africans drowning in the Mediterranean in the summer
   holiday season, but boats are wrecked all year round. In mid-December
   51 migrants drowned off the Greek island of Samos, one of the worst
   such incidents in recent memory. Mexicans dying in Arizona's desert
   rarely make headlines any more. And not a lot is heard about the
   600,000 people a year, perhaps more, who the UN says are trafficked
   and often forced into prostitution. Bonded labour, too, is dismally
   common.

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

                          India's way with a fence

   Europe and America are both making big efforts to control their
   southern borders. The EU's system, run by its member countries, is
   called Frontex. In 2006 most sea-borne African migrants washed up on
   the Canaries; in 2007 it was the turn of the central Mediterranean,
   especially Malta and Italy. In the coming year watch Greece and
   Cyprus, where a trickle of boat people from Egypt and Turkey may turn
   into a flood. With some 100 patrol craft, plus spotter planes,
   land-based radar and other technology, Frontex does seem to be making
   it more difficult to get in.

   A trip with a night patrol on a Greek coastguard vessel from the
   island of Samos shows how. The boat, with tinted and bullet-proofed
   windows, accelerates above 30 knots as a searchlight illuminates a
   350-metre radius and a radar scans the nearby Turkish coast. Six
   guards aboard, some brandishing M4 rifles, peer into the darkness.
   Fishing and tourist craft appear in the gloom. Spotting a raftload of
   immigrants would be easy, though those on small rubber dinghies or
   swimming with snorkels and flippers would be harder to find. The boat
   is kept busy. In the 24 hours before this patrol several dozen illegal
   migrants were plucked from the sea and the rocky shore and taken to a
   detention centre in Samos. Greece has 30 such boats, plus four
   aeroplanes for air-sea surveillance.

   Even the bright and well-educated risk misery. An Ethiopian law
   student in Greece tells of his wretched trip to Europe: he bribed
   Ethiopian border officials, hid in a truck carrying coffee in Sudan,
   endured seven days in the Sahara, spent months in a grim camp in
   Libya, suffered a terrifying voyage across the Mediterranean, hitched
   a lift in a frozen-meat lorry in Turkey, scavenged in a forest for
   days and feared he would drown in a fishing boat that carried him into
   the EU. He paid several thousand dollars for the journey and ended up
   locked in a cramped and stinking warehouse on the island of Samos,
   crammed with asylum-seekers. Dejected, he says he wants to go home.

   America's frontier with Mexico has even more gear, gadgets and
   manpower on display. Unmanned Predator Bee drones float at 12,000
   feet, helping to guide officers in bulletproof helicopters, in jeeps,
   on horseback, on mountain bikes and on all-terrain buggies towards any
   would-be migrants. Seismic sensors catch footfalls, magnetic ones
   notice cars, infra-red beams are useful for tunnels. Some 18,000
   officers man the border crossings and a further 15,000 (due to rise to
   18,000 by the end of 2008) patrol in-between them.

   Perhaps the best way to look at the border is from the air. As an
   A-star helicopter lurches into the late-morning haze above San Ysidro,
   southern California, it becomes obvious that crossing from Tijuana on
   the Mexican side is no longer easy. Running a dozen miles inland from
   the Pacific ocean is a wide double fence, one to block cars, the other
   to stop pedestrians. Watchtowers and surveillance cameras, tall wire
   mesh and lots of border guards line the frontier. Occasionally
   migrants still scamper over the fence with improvised ladders. From
   the air a series of concrete paths becomes apparent, running
   crossways. These are tunnels, regularly dug from the southern side,
   regularly filled in again by the border patrol. Some have stretched
   for half a mile, complete with lighting, ventilation and a track for
   rolling carts.

   After 12 miles the fence becomes a single line, and two miles after
   that it stops. From here on the hills rise, providing a natural
   barrier. Now the "virtual fence" takes over--drones, helicopters,
   sensors. By the end of 2008 some 670 miles of fencing will be erected
   along the 1,969-mile border. In many places the fence is made of
   Vietnam-era concrete slabs designed for runways and turned on their
   sides.

   Europe and America are not alone in their taste for well-policed
   borders. South Africa, deluged by migrants from north of the Limpopo
   river, is trying to enforce its own. In 2007 it reportedly deported an
   average of 4,000 people a week. India is finishing an iron barrier 2.5
   metres high along the 4,100km (2,500 mile) boundary with Bangladesh,
   at a cost of more than $1 billion, to mark a fuzzy frontier and keep
   out poor Bangladeshis.

   Are the barriers doing any good? The answer depends on your
   objectives. With Frontex in Europe, for example, the craft, for all
   their guns and scary looks, sometimes have to act as rescue boats. It
   is said that some migrants, once they have arrived in EU waters, phone
   ahead to get someone to collect them, confident that they will not be
   turned away. To make sure, they sometimes slash their dinghy with a
   knife as the patrol boat arrives.

   In America, look down from the helicopter at the spot where the fence
   stops. Here the paths begin: thousands of jagged tracks in the
   scrubland, stretching north to south, worn into the rust-coloured
   earth by millions of human footsteps. The migrants have a simple way
   of dealing with the technology: they walk around the fence. Only some
   are then stopped.

   Even those detained at the border have every reason to expect to make
   it across eventually. On the day your correspondent visited, two men
   had been chased, tackled, dragged through a bush and handcuffed in the
   back of a border patrol car. They were taken to a processing centre in
   the nearby town of Nogales, their fingerprints scanned and checked
   against a database of criminals. Those not on a wanted list are
   usually deported within 24 hours. But many will turn round and try
   again.

   In Europe an even larger proportion of those stopped at the borders
   end up staying. Many will attempt to claim asylum, saying they are
   escaping from a war. Those who are not able to convince officials that
   they are refugees may still be able to stay if the EU lacks a
   deportation agreement with their home country. If deportation is
   impossible, they are released after a time and melt away.

   Don't even think about it

   No doubt the borders are becoming harder to cross. Franco Frattini,
   Europe's commissioner for justice and home affairs, is delighted with
   Frontex. The first eight months of 2007 showed 72% fewer migrants
   crossing to the Canaries and 41% fewer in the central Mediterranean
   than the year before. "It shows it is possible to cut because of the
   impact of deterrence," he says. America's fence-builders are also
   pleased. Official figures released in November showed a one-fifth
   decline in cross-border apprehensions, from just over 1m in fiscal
   2006 to 858,000 in fiscal 2007, the lowest number in five years.

   The high prices charged by people-smugglers reflect the growing
   difficulty, as well as the relative risk and discomfort of the journey
   (see table 3). The cheapest way to reach San Diego is to curl up in
   the boot of a willing driver's car and hope that sniffer dogs will not
   find you, or to use a fake or stolen passport. Tunnels and guided
   hikes are more pricey. Ten years ago a trip from Mexico to Phoenix,
   Arizona, cost $250-500, but now it will be more like $3,000. If you
   are an "OTM" (Other Than Mexican, in the language of the guards),
   rates are higher.

   Fences are popular with those who live on the right side of them. The
   first barriers in San Ysidro went up in the early 1990s as part of
   "Operation Gatekeeper", helping to end chaos and violence. Huge
   numbers of illegal migrants used to gather on the border, then run
   across, thousands at a time, overwhelming border guards. Today
   shopping malls, warehouses and housing fill an area that was once
   scrubland too dangerous for the police to patrol. Land and property
   prices have soared. But although some illegal migrants are deterred by
   fences, the recent drop in apprehensions in America may have as much
   to do with the housing-market slump, which means fewer are drawn north
   in the first place.

   Other illegal migrants are diverted to new and more dangerous routes.
   Thus African boat people endure longer trips in wilder seas. More
   Mexicans strike out over those natural barriers. With inadequate
   water, high-caffeine drinks, garlic to ward off rattlesnakes and a
   goat's foot for luck, the ill-prepared are dying in alarming numbers
   in Arizona's desert. Since 2000, in the sector around Tucson alone,
   some 1,137 bodies have been found. There are probably many more still
   out there.

   Nor does it seem much to celebrate that job-seekers are handing more
   of their savings to criminals, such as the Arellano Felix cartel that
   controls much of the Mexican side of the California border. Some fund
   their crossings by becoming criminals themselves, either as guides for
   other migrants or as drug mules. They are also carrying knives and
   guns more often.

   The bigger concern is that fences might in fact push up the total
   number of illegal migrants inside any given rich country. After all,
   the more costly and dangerous it is to cross, the less people will
   feel like leaving. Migrants quite often return home for a while--but
   only if they know it will be relatively easy to get back in. The
   tougher the border, the more incentive migrants have to stay and
   perhaps to get their families to join them instead.

   One migration expert in Washington, DC, says that higher walls will
   keep people in as well as out: "The more that is spent on the border,
   the more illegal migrants stay here. Our politicians are not stupid.
   They know that walls do not stop people. It is a loser's game." That
   argument is well understood in Europe, too. One official dealing with
   immigration policy in Brussels says: "It is playing King Canute to say
   that you can stop illegal migration. It has never worked. It is no
   easier to stop than prostitution." But, on both sides of the Atlantic,
   tough borders are popular with voters, so they are here to stay.

   They may become more effective if combined with other high-tech
   enforcement. The EU has a pan-continental fingerprint database for
   asylum-seekers called Eurodac which lets officials track those who
   have been detained. Britain is introducing identity cards for
   foreigners, including biometric information, and in France Mr Sarkozy
   will now go ahead with DNA testing of supposed blood relatives. In
   America every detained illegal immigrant has his fingerprints recorded
   through a system called IAFIS, which is linked to the FBI and other
   crime databases.

   American employers are also facing tougher checks on whether they use
   undocumented labour. An electronic database, E-verify, lets registered
   employers check instantly whether workers are authorised to be in the
   country. And more employers who break the law are facing arrests and
   fines: 863 arrests were made in 2007, against only 25 five years
   earlier.


   Clean technology: Architects believe that biologically inspired
   designs can help to reduce the environmental impact of buildings

        Ideas worth stealing: Grimshaw's proposed indoor rainforest

   ARCHITECTS have long taken inspiration from nature. In ancient Egypt
   columns were modelled on palm trees and lotus plants, and building
   designers have borrowed the shapes and proportions of natural forms
   ever since as they strived to achieve aesthetic perfection.

   Some architects now believe that such biomimicry has more to offer
   than simply making buildings look good. They are copying functional
   systems found in nature to provide cooling, generate energy and even
   to desalinate water. And they insist that doing these things using
   biomimetic designs is not just a gimmick, but makes financial sense.
   "It's often the case that green technology is considered to be
   commercially unattractive," says Michael Pawlyn, an architect at
   Grimshaw, the firm behind the Eden Project, a highly acclaimed biome
   structure in England. That perception, he says, is wrong--and he has
   the designs to prove it.

   So far, the use of biomimetic features in buildings has been driven as
   much by aesthetics as by function, and has been limited to relatively
   simple, passive systems. The Arab World Institute in Paris, for
   example, has an array of mechanical, eye-like irises on its
   south-facing façade. These open and close to control the amount of
   light entering the building, thereby regulating the internal
   temperature.

   Similarly there are now several buildings that have ventilation
   systems based on those found in termite mounds. The Eastgate Centre, a
   shopping centre and office block in Harare, Zimbabwe, has a mechanical
   cooling system made up of vents and flues that help hot air out of the
   structure. "It's the same principle as the chimney effect, but a bit
   more controlled," says Professor George Jeronimidis, director of the
   Centre for Biomimetics at the University of Reading. As hot air rises
   and flows out through vents at the top of the building, cooler air is
   drawn in at ground level.

   Dr Jeronimidis is now taking this concept further by using adaptive
   materials that flex in response to the level of moisture in the
   air--an idea borrowed from the way pine-cones open and close. Using a
   cellulose-like fibre composite, he has created a vent that changes
   from one curved shape to another, depending on the relative levels of
   moisture inside and outside a building. When warm, moist air builds up
   inside the building, the vent opens to allow it to escape. But when
   the air inside is dry, the vent stays shut and moist air from outdoors
   is kept out. "In principle it can be made to respond naturally,
   without any additional power," says Dr Jeronimidis.

   Intelligent designs

   Architects have become more interested in this sort of thing in recent
   years, he says, as greater attention is paid to the energy consumption
   and sustainability of buildings. Biology offers solutions to a range
   of problems. "Nature has had the benefit of a pretty long R&D period,"
   says Mr Pawlyn, who hopes to take the exploitation of natural designs
   to a completely new level. His firm has borrowed a trick used by
   fog-basking beetles and in the nostrils of camels for a novel
   desalination plant.

   When Grimshaw was given the brief to regenerate the Santa Catalina
   Isthmus, a narrow stretch of land on the coast of Las Palmas in Grand
   Canaria, the firm came up with the concept of a 3km (1.9 mile)
   promenade with a theatre and botanic garden as its focus. But rather
   than creating yet another drain on local resources the architects
   wanted the structure to be cooled and irrigated by natural means. "We
   decided to put forward a scheme that showed how the island could move
   towards self-sufficiency in water and energy, without relying on
   fossil fuels," says Mr Pawlyn.

     Ideas worth stealing: a rendering of the proposed Las Palmas Water
                  Theatre (left); the Eden Project (right)

   This meant finding a way to turn seawater into clean drinking water
   without expending too much energy. Fog-basking beetles, which are
   found in Namibia, have an ingeniously simple way of doing this. They
   hide underground during the day so that when they come out at night,
   their dark backs are relatively cool compared with the ambient night
   air. As moisture-laden breezes roll in from the Atlantic, the water in
   the air condenses on the beetles' backs (just as a cold bottle of beer
   left on a table causes water in the air to condense on its surface).
   The beetles simply have to tilt their bodies to make the water trickle
   into their mouths. A similar trick is also used by camels to prevent
   them losing moisture as they exhale. Moisture secreted through the
   nostrils evaporates as the camel breathes in, cooling the nostrils in
   the process. When the camel breathes out, moisture within the air then
   condenses on the nostrils.

   Inspired by this, Mr Pawlyn and his colleagues have designed their
   theatre around the same principles. A series of tall, vertical
   evaporation "gills" are positioned so that they face towards the sea
   and the incoming coastal breeze. Warm seawater, taken from close to
   the surface, is pumped so that it trickles down these units. As the
   breeze blows through the gills some of the seawater evaporates,
   leaving salt behind. The clean, moist air then continues its journey
   until it encounters a series of vertical condensing pipes. These are
   kept cold by pumping deep-sea water, from 1,000 metres below the
   surface, through them. As the moist, warm air hits the pipes the water
   condenses and trickles down to be collected.

   "You get a very powerful desalination effect," says Mr Pawlyn. This
   system is able to supply enough water for the 70,000-square-metre
   complex. A traditional flash-distillation desalination plant consumes
   between five and 12 kilowatt hours (kWh) of energy per cubic metre of
   water. The biomimetic approach, however, requires just 1.6 kWh per
   cubic metre. And since the water pumps will be mostly powered by a
   wind turbine, driven by the same prevailing winds that provide the
   plant's airflow, the overall energy consumption of the site is reduced
   even further. In the process, the same system can also help to cool
   neighbouring buildings, says Mr Pawlyn.

   Build me a rainforest

   Although it is unclear whether this innovative project will go ahead,
   the principles have already been tested by Charlie Paton, an engineer
   who collaborated in the scheme. His organisation, Seawater Greenhouse,
   has built pilot greenhouses that show this idea really works. The
   catch is that it will only work in certain climates, says Mr Pawlyn.
   "If you have a very dry and hot environment, the water readily
   evaporates."

   Nonetheless, Mr Pawlyn and his colleagues believe that biomimetic
   principles can be taken even further, to generate new income as well
   as reduce running costs and resource use. Natural ecosystems are
   restorative, notes Mr Pawlyn. "They operate in a closed loop made up
   of quite complex webs of different organisms," he says. "Man-made
   structures tend not to do that." Instead, man-made systems tend to be
   linear, consuming raw materials at one end and producing waste at the
   other. The result is a gradual depletion of natural resources.

   In an effort to reproduce a closed-loop system, Grimshaw has developed
   a design for an indoor tropical rainforest. This botanical garden is
   designed to sit on an existing landfill site and be a completely
   carbon-neutral structure. For most of the year, heat to maintain the
   hothouse will be provided by solar heating through a glazed roof.
   During the colder months additional heating will come from landfill
   biomass. The building is designed to be flanked by a number of large
   vertical vessels into which biodegradable waste, originally intended
   for the landfill, will be tossed. As the waste breaks down in these
   large composting units, it reaches temperatures of up to 75°C, and
   this heats the indoor garden.

   This building will not only be carbon-neutral but will also generate
   income, by providing the service of waste disposal. Some countries
   impose landfill taxes of as much as £20 ($40) per tonne of waste. The
   designers reckon that their proposed building could generate as much
   as £7m ($14m) a year by acting as a substitute for a landfill site.
   And in the true spirit of restorative closed-loops, the resulting
   compost can be sold for agricultural use.

   "Buildings should be able to pay for themselves," says Professor
   Julian Vincent, director of the Centre for Biomimetics at the
   University of Bath in England. At the moment, he says, most
   biologically inspired systems used in architecture are simply
   morphological. "This seems to me to lose the point of biomimetics," he
   says. There is huge potential, but architects are only just beginning
   to learn how to apply biomimetics in a more functional way, says
   Michael Weinstock, director of the Architectural Association School of
   Architecture in London. Not only large projects but smaller homes and
   offices can benefit from the same principles, he insists. "One of our
   ambitions is to ensure that every building ought to be able to
   generate its own energy," he says.

   Bringing biomimetics home

   This need not require elaborate new structures like Grimshaw's theatre
   or indoor rainforest. Biomimetics can be applied in simpler ways, too.
   Smart paints which use a self-cleaning principle borrowed from lotus
   leaves are now being tested. Once applied, the surface of the paint
   takes the form of densely packed ridges or bumps, just like the
   microscopic bumps found on lotus leaves. A property of such tiny bumps
   is that they prevent drops of water from spreading out: the drops
   simply roll off the surface instead, taking dirt with them.
   (Self-cleaning glass relies on a similar principle.) And organic solar
   cells, which mimic photosynthetic processes to capture light and
   convert it into electricity, are arguably a form of biomimetic
   technology, too.

   "Part of the challenge, I believe, is to reconnect people with
   resources," says Mr Pawlyn. He makes a strong case that borrowing
   architectural ideas from nature can help to reduce the environmental
   impact of buildings. In the process, it may also encourage people to
   view natural systems with greater respect, in more ways than one.


                                                            Steve O'Brien

                               Steve O'Brien

   After the roughest of starts, things no longer look quite so dire for
   Sir Menzies Campbell

   NOBODY can say that Sir Menzies Campbell has had an easy first year as
   leader of his party. As poisoned chalices go, the leadership of the
   Liberal Democrats 12 months ago resembled something rustled up by
   Lucrezia Borgia on one of her more vengeful days. Yet this weekend
   many of the Lib Dems gathering in Harrogate for their spring
   conference sense that they may be closer to real power than at any
   time in living memory.

   When Sir Menzies (or Ming, as he prefers to be known) took over, the
   Lib Dems were reeling from two months of public self-destruction.
   Their previous leader, the popular but chaotic Charles Kennedy, had
   been pushed out by exasperated colleagues after belatedly confessing
   that he was an alcoholic. Mr Kennedy's supporters blamed Sir Menzies
   for planning the coup, unfairly dubbing him "Ming the Merciless".

   After revelations about their private lives undermined two contenders,
   Sir Menzies, supported by the party establishment, won less
   convincingly than expected against the relatively unknown Chris Huhne.
   During the campaign, his stately manner and at times slightly
   tremulous voice had made him seem old for his 64 years. He was also
   clearly uncomfortable dealing with domestic policy after a long period
   of specialising in foreign affairs.

   Nor did things immediately improve. At the weekly House of Commons
   bear-pit of prime minister's questions (PMQs) Sir Menzies was inept,
   his notes grasped in visibly shaking hands. Comparisons with the
   assured performances of the much younger Tory leader, David Cameron,
   were painful, as were bumbling attempts by Sir Menzies to suggest a
   familiarity with popular culture that had come more naturally to his
   predecessor, "Chatshow Charlie". A hundred days into his leadership,
   Sir Menzies cut a wretched figure.

   Since late summer, however, things have slowly got better. Helped by
   the fact that nobody in his right mind could contemplate the purgatory
   of another leadership contest before the next election, the Lib Dems
   put on a decent show of unity at their party conference in September.
   They also managed to win some positive coverage for the "green-tax
   switch" that allowed them to drop a damaging commitment to raising the
   upper rate of income tax to 50% in favour of environment-friendly
   taxes. With parliament's return after the long recess, Sir Menzies no
   longer looked quite so out of his depth at PMQs.

   Over the past few months he has also been lucky. There is now rather
   less interest in his shortcomings than in those of Gordon Brown, while
   Tony Blair's long goodbye has been dominated by foreign policy--in
   particular, by the attempts on both sides of the Atlantic to find a
   way out of the Iraq morass. That has played to Sir Menzies's strengths
   and reminded voters that the Lib Dems were the only major party to
   oppose the war.

   In January, egged on by some of his colleagues, Sir Menzies took the
   risk of calling for British forces to quit Iraq by October. Although
   he earned some (deserved) criticism for advocating a timetable that
   owed more to electoral populism than to concern for Britain's
   responsibilities, it won headlines. When Mr Blair announced last week
   the first phase of a withdrawal of the army from Basra, Sir Menzies
   was able to claim, somewhat speciously, that even the government now
   accepted his argument that there was nothing left for British troops
   usefully to do in Iraq.

   Crucially for Sir Menzies, his party's performance in the opinion
   polls has been resilient enough to prevent any panic in the ranks.
   Given Mr Cameron's grab for traditional Lib Dem voters on the
   environment, civil liberties and localism, the party's poll rating,
   hovering around 20%, has been impressive. Senior Lib Dems claim to be
   delighted that Mr Cameron has worked so hard to put climate change on
   the agenda. They point to polling data that suggests voters still
   think the Lib Dems are easily the greenest of the mainstream parties.
   The more salient environmental issues become, they argue, the better
   the Lib Dems should do. And, vitally, the topic provides an
   alternative to Iraq, which may well be stale by the next election.

   More than anything, however, Lib Dem morale is being sustained by the
   real possibility that the next election will result in a hung
   parliament. This week Sir Menzies surprised colleagues by revealing
   that the party had begun work on its negotiating strategy in case the
   election went that way. Sir Menzies has asked Paul Burstow, his chief
   whip, to examine the conventions on coalition discussions, which were
   last used in February 1974.

   Unfortunately, no primer can tell Sir Menzies what he should do in
   what is likely to be a fluid situation. Even if Labour ends up with
   the largest number of seats it could still have a significantly lower
   share of the vote than the Tories, thanks to the quirks of the
   electoral system. Supporting it in exchange for a promise to introduce
   proportional representation, which benefits third parties, would look
   opportunistic. But throwing their weight to the Tories, while
   extracting little in return from Mr Cameron, would strike left-leaning
   Lib Dem activists as a betrayal of principle.

   Patiently does it

   That suggests the Lib Dems need one of two things to happen if they
   are to realise their goal of voting reform. Mr Brown might abandon his
   usual caution and announce--well before the election--his intention to
   bring in some form of PR as part of a wider package of constitutional
   modernisation.

   But if, as is more likely, Mr Brown stays true to form and does
   nothing, Sir Menzies will have to take a punt that a second, quickly
   held, election would also result in a hung parliament. That has never
   happened before, but it just might create the conditions for getting
   the kind of deal his party could accept. It would also change British
   politics for ever. Sir Menzies can't help looking old, but what he
   must not do is give the impression that he is in too much of a hurry.




   The contest to run Europe's biggest city is taking shape


   LONDONERS eager to prove that their metropolis really is, in
   Disraeli's words, "a roost for every bird" usually cite ordinary life
   at ground level: the diversity of races and languages, the yuppies,
   artists and immigrants juxtaposed in the same east London postcodes.
   They can now point to their aspiring rulers, too.

   The third election for the mayor of London, an office created in 2000
   for a city that had lacked its own administration since 1986, comes in
   May. The principal candidates are as curious as the population they
   hope to govern: a left-wing iconoclast who often favours globalisation
   (the Labour incumbent, Ken Livingstone), a shock-headed Old Etonian
   eccentric (the Conservative Boris Johnson) and a libertarian gay
   ex-policeman (the Liberal Democrat Brian Paddick), who made his name
   with a tolerant line on cannabis when he commanded a south London
   borough.

   Many Londoners are indifferent as to who their mayor is (voting
   turnout was only 37% in 2004). Yet the office has come to matter. The
   mayor controls a budget of £10.6 billion ($20.9 billion)--up from £3.8
   billion in 2001-02, and divided mostly between transport and policing
   (see chart). He also has powers over cultural matters and economic
   development; in 2006 he acquired more clout over housing, planning,
   the environment, and learning and skills. The biggest directly elected
   office in the country is also a bully pulpit.

   It is true, says Tony Travers of the London School of Economics, that
   London's mayor is weaker than his counterparts in New York and Tokyo,
   and that much power, particularly over schools, remains with the
   city's 32 boroughs. But he is also relatively unconstrained by his
   municipal council. The London Assembly does little more than vote on
   the mayor's annual budget--a pygmy next to the mighty New York City
   Council.

   Mr Livingstone, who won office as an independent in 2000 and retained
   it for Labour in 2004, has done better than many expected. He
   introduced a congestion charge in the centre of town (piquing the
   interest of other cities) and a more efficient ticketing system for
   public transport, expanding the bus service. He has enjoyed good
   relations with city financiers while redistributing wealth through
   planning decisions: developers are allowed to build in return for
   including affordable housing and other goodies for the poor. He also
   helped secure the 2012 Olympics for London and cash from the central
   government for a new cross-city train service.

   The mayor has his critics, however. Some attack his policies. The
   council-tax precept which helps fund the Greater London Authority
   (GLA), along with central-government grants and public-transport
   ticket revenues, has risen. Congestion has not dropped hugely. The
   mayor's enthusiasm for development (he wants a big increase in
   housebuilding, and a new generation of skyscrapers) alarms many, and
   he is thought indifferent to the suburbs.

   Mr Livingstone's style also draws ire. He is truculent, calling the
   American ambassador to London a "chiselling little crook" for not
   making embassy officials pay the congestion charge. He compared a
   Jewish journalist to a concentration-camp guard, and shared a platform
   with Yusuf al-Qaradawi, a controversial Muslim cleric. Some resent his
   grandstanding (he signed a deal to get oil from Venezuela's Hugo
   Chávez last year) and the public money he spends promoting the GLA and
   its works. There are also allegations that his London Development
   Agency made grants to dubious businesses linked to Lee Jasper, a close
   adviser, a charge that Mr Livingstone dismisses as a smear.

   Yet he remains a formidable politician, and the Tories' choice of
   candidate to run against him is a risky one. Mr Johnson's journalistic
   career was stellar (he was editor of the Spectator, among other jobs)
   but punctuated by controversy. He became an MP, but concealing an
   affair led to his removal from the Tory front bench in 2004 by Michael
   Howard, the party's leader; David Cameron, Mr Howard's successor,
   restored him. His sense of fun knows few bounds (Mr Paddick calls him
   a "clown"), which critics say equips him ill to run a city with dire
   social problems.

   Some Tories fear privately that a heavy defeat would reflect badly on
   Mr Cameron, who backed his schoolfellow's candidacy; others think a
   shambolic performance as mayor might be even more damaging. The
   former, at least, were heartened by a YouGov poll on January 3rd that
   put support for Mr Livingstone, at 45%, only one percentage point
   ahead of that for Mr Johnson (Mr Paddick lagged some way behind). Mr
   Johnson's own polling suggests that Londoners are now less willing to
   distinguish the mayor from the unpopular national Labour government.
   Mr Johnson kept a low public profile until the new year but visited
   every borough and recruited new staff in the meantime.

   What would a win by either main candidate mean for London? Transport
   defined the previous two elections but is declining as a concern among
   Londoners. The manifesto that Mr Johnson launched on January 7th
   focuses on violent crime and the housing shortage; he will keep the
   congestion charge, but tinker with its enforcement. Mr Livingstone
   emphasises the environment, noting Mr Johnson's lack of greenery. He
   also wants to consolidate London's 32 boroughs into five but is
   unlikely to achieve this even if he wins.

   A contest between two strong and controversial personalities could,
   for the first time since the office of mayor was created, make for a
   gripping election. Whoever Londoners choose to rule their roost will
   be a curious bird indeed.


   Too much or not enough?

   WHAT will happen to global migration in the next half-century? Whether
   they think migration is good or bad, experts agree on one thing: that
   governments are generally failing, or not even trying, to manage it
   properly. Some would like to see the establishment of a new
   international body, along the lines of the World Trade Organisation,
   or give more powers to the UN's existing International Organisation
   for Migration. Others hope to decouple migration policy from party
   politics. In America, hostility to migrants has been making serious
   policy reform impossible for nearly two decades.

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

        Available now: young risk-takers, willing to travel, lots of
                               get-up-and-go

   "We can't touch a comma without killing each other," complains
   Demetrios Papademetriou of the Migration Policy Institute in
   Washington, DC. "The only discretion we have is whether to enforce the
   law or not." There is a lot of nasty rhetoric about illegal migrants,
   but politicians also lobby for cheap migrant workers in their
   constituencies.

   Those who think about the longer term agree that some of the
   assumptions of recent decades need revisiting. There is more
   scepticism, for example, that family reunification benefits host
   countries. But not many of them weigh up the most extreme scenarios:
   how would the world fare if either the flow of migrants were to slow
   down radically or, conversely, there were no legal limits on migration
   at all?

   Rates of migration might slow if countries were to slam their doors
   shut, or because the supply of migrants declines. If political
   pressure became strong enough, rich countries might decide to squeeze
   foreign labour whatever the economic price. That is what happened in
   America just before the first world war. Within a few years Congress,
   overturning a veto by President Woodrow Wilson, passed laws that
   sharply cut the inflow of migrants. Immigration slumped and stayed low
   until the 1960s. Other rich countries also slapped on restrictions.

   If something similar happened today, there might be some benefits. For
   example, it might become easier to integrate existing immigrant
   communities. Perhaps, as Japan appears to be hoping, more jobs could
   be carried out by machines. Possibly, ageing natives in rich countries
   might do more of the jobs that they now shun. Such countries would
   probably have to lower their expectations of economic growth.

   It is also possible that the steady supply of workers from nearby
   countries could one day dry up. Patterns of migration will certainly
   change. Note how quickly countries switch from exporting to importing
   labour as they develop. Until recently Spain and other parts of
   southern Europe were sending lots of workers abroad, but demographic
   and economic changes have made them into net labour importers.
   Portugal now attracts Ukrainians, Spain draws in Romanians and
   Moroccans.

   In the coming decades, the next lot of emigration countries will grow
   richer and older too. The average age in Ukraine is already 40 and in
   Poland 38, not very different from the west European average. Even
   Moroccans and Mexicans are, on average, already in their mid-20s. With
   rapid growth in their own economies, wages back home rise too, and the
   supply of emigrants will eventually drop. Those countries, in turn,
   will then start to attract more workers from farther away. For the
   foreseeable future there will always be another pool in which to fish
   for workers, but that will mean drawing migrants from more and more
   distant cultures.

   The other scenario, of a world wide open to migration, is less likely
   but would be more beneficial. Some regions--most of the EU, much of
   west Africa--do have unrestricted movement, and seem to be faring well
   with it.

   Philippe Legrain (formerly a writer on The Economist), in his recent
   book, "Immigrants: Your Country Needs Them", argues that stopping
   people from migrating is both "morally wrong and economically stupid".
   Lant Pritchett, of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, argues
   that faster global migration would bring huge gains for poor
   countries, exceeding the combined rewards offered by foreign aid, debt
   relief and trade reforms proposed under the Doha development round.

   How to make the world richer

   If labour flowed without restraint, social and political systems would
   be disrupted on a huge scale, but global poverty would be vastly
   relieved. A study in 1984 suggested that if the flow of labour were
   freed completely, the size of the world economy would double. Another
   study in 2003 more modestly put the gains to world GDP at nearly 10%.
   An estimate in 2004 of the impact of letting 16m more migrants into
   OECD economies suggested a global gain of $156 billion, or about 0.6%
   of world GDP--not a large rise, but again the poor would be winners.

   Opening borders to let many more job-seekers go where they please
   would be radical, but it would not mean allowing criminals,
   drug-smugglers or terrorists to move freely between countries. And
   there are many ways of doing it. Holger Kolb, a migration expert, has
   suggested allowing unlimited numbers of foreign workers into rich
   countries but charging them a fee on arrival. That would cut out the
   people-smugglers, and the revenues could help to pay for public
   services. Another option would be to charge foreign workers higher
   rates of tax than locals. Such ideas should be explored.

   The moral case for migration is incontrovertible: it greatly lessens
   human misery. The cultural gains from migrants are usually obvious,
   too. But the economic case needs to be made more forcefully. Over the
   past few decades the freer movement of capital and traded goods has
   brought enormous gains to human welfare. Similar benefits can be
   expected from a freer flow of people. Policymakers in rich countries
   must make those benefits more transparent. They need to persuade
   voters that natives and migrants alike gain as larger workforces speed
   up economic growth; and that foreigners not only fill jobs but act as
   entrepreneurs who in turn create jobs and wealth. In the longer term,
   migrants will be essential to supplement shrinking native workforces.
   The question currently being asked in the rich world--whether
   immigration rates are unsustainably high--may be the wrong one.
   Perhaps they are not nearly high enough.


   Political donations attract controversy once more

   IF SEX was the richest source of scandal under the last Conservative
   government, money has taken its place under Labour. Its first major
   controversy, in 1997, involved a donation from Bernie Ecclestone, a
   motor-racing tycoon. Tony Blair's final year as prime minister was
   dogged by a police investigation into whether peerages had been
   offered in return for loans. Last November the party's general
   secretary resigned over donations received from a property developer
   through third parties.

   The latest uproar involves Peter Hain, secretary of state both for
   Wales and for work and pensions. He campaigned last year for Labour's
   deputy leadership but came fifth of six candidates. On November 29th
   Mr Hain admitted that he had failed to register a £5,000 ($9,800)
   donation to his campaign. Four days later, after it emerged that a
   gift in kind by another donor had not been declared either, he
   promised to study his records and produce a full list of undeclared
   donations. On January 10th he revealed that there were 17 of these,
   amounting to over £103,000.

   Murkier still is the role played by an obscure think-tank, the
   Progressive Policies Forum (PPF), in channelling £55,000 to the
   campaign. Set up in December 2006, three months after Mr Hain said he
   would run for the post, it employs no staff and has published no
   research.

   Mr Hain blames the failure to declare the donations on sloppy campaign
   staff, and notes that the money came from legal sources. But critics
   insist that an oversight on this scale is unforgivable in a politician
   entrusted with running two departments. Even more troubling, they say,
   is the PPF. Many assume the think-tank was used to mask the identity
   of donors, but Mr Hain says he was not involved in setting it up.

   Mr Hain's future rests on the outcome of inquiries launched by the
   Electoral Commission (EC) and the parliamentary commissioner for
   standards. He is seen as a capable minister, but his vaulting ambition
   (his profligate campaign included an expensive full-page advertisement
   in a national newspaper) and lack of socialist roots (he was a Liberal
   before joining Labour) have denied him a base in the party. Support
   from the prime minister is also nuanced: on January 15th Gordon Brown
   absolved his minister of "corruption", attributing his mistake to
   "incompetence".

   The Conservatives' own funding controversies have contained that
   party's glee at Mr Hain's troubles. It was revealed on January 14th
   that David Cameron, the Tory leader, had failed to declare to the EC
   three free flights in 2005 (though they were declared in the
   parliamentary Register of Members' Interests). The day before, George
   Osborne, the shadow chancellor, was hit by the revelation that he did
   not declare more than £487,000 in donations in the register (though he
   did to the EC). Donors had given the money to the Tories' central
   budget but expressed a wish that it be used to support Mr Osborne.

   The cases are different. Mr Hain did not report his donations at all;
   Mr Osborne reported his to the EC, and it is not clear that they
   should have been declared in the parliamentary register as well.
   Guidance solicited from the registrar in December by the Tories' chief
   whip, Patrick McLoughlin, was taken to mean that the donations needed
   to be recorded only with the EC. The registrar then backtracked,
   prompting Mr McLoughlin to ask the Parliamentary Committee on
   Standards and Privileges on January 11th for clarification. But Labour
   MPs ask why the Tories waited 11 months after they began receiving the
   contributions to seek advice. The parliamentary commissioner for
   standards said on January 17th that he was investigating a complaint
   against Mr Osborne by two Labour MPs, who have also asked the EC to
   look into whether 80 Tory MPs have disclosed other types of donation
   properly.

   A badly needed cross-party consensus on reforming political-party
   funding has yet to emerge. The latest controversies should prompt
   agreement at least on the need for simplicity, however. The parallel
   existence of the EC and the parliamentary register, each with its own
   rules, ensures confusion. The sex scandals of the 1990s may have been
   seedy, but they were rarely the result of a misunderstanding.


   The government wants to build up a marine-energy industry

   THE British have always looked to the sea to protect them from the
   earth's dangers. The ocean is a handy deterrent to foreign armies, but
   it is useful for other things too. In the midst of the energy crisis
   of the 1970s, there was much talk that marine energy would let its
   possessors break free of OPEC. With the arrival of North Sea oil,
   marine energy was forgotten. But 35 years later, with North Sea oil in
   decline, climate change a big issue and wind farms facing lengthy
   planning delays, sea power is back on the agenda.

   On September 17th the government announced that planning permission
   had been given for Wave Hub, a £28m project off the north Cornish
   coast that will provide a sea-floor "socket" allowing wave-power
   generators to get their electricity back to shore. The South West
   Regional Development Agency (SWRDA), a quango which will part-fund the
   project, has high hopes. Four firms are planning to connect their
   machines, forming what officials hope will be the world's biggest wave
   farm, with 30 machines supplying up to 20 megawatts of power. An
   existing wave-power project in the Orkney islands is set to expand,
   and officials are studying a multi-billion-pound private-sector plan
   to harness the tides near the mouth of the river Severn.

   Marine energy, and especially wave power, is still an immature
   technology. Many designs concentrate on surviving the fury of ocean
   storms rather than maximising energy production. Nor is it cheap.
   Firms are coy about giving precise figures but the Carbon Trust, a
   government-funded green consultancy, reckoned the price a year ago was
   between 22p and 25p per kilowatt hour--around nine times the price of
   gas-fired electricity.

   Boosters argue that technology and mass production will bring costs
   down. British officials seem to agree. Having noticed the success of
   the Danes in developing their wind-turbine industry, both the SWRDA
   and the Scottish Executive want to do the same for ocean power.

   Geography is one advantage: rough seas and big tides make the British
   isles one of the best places in the world for sea power. The Carbon
   Trust believes that, in theory, sea power could provide 20% of the
   country's electricity. There is engineering expertise, notably in
   Aberdeen, where the offshore oil industry has been installing complex
   machinery in rough seas for decades. The International Energy Agency
   thinks that Britain is pursuing more marine-power designs (29) than
   any other country (America, with 13, is second). Scotland already
   boasts the European Marine Energy Centre, a research outfit, an
   advantage the West Country hopes to counteract by spending £15m on a
   similar organisation attached to the universities of Exeter and
   Plymouth.

   The economics are more complicated. David Weaver, the chief executive
   of Oceanlinx, one of the firms planning to use the Wave Hub, argues
   that Britain's liberalised and transparent power markets make life
   easier for newcomers, although others argue that fluctuating power
   prices make planning tricky. Subsidies are more generous in countries
   such as Portugal, which is keen on building a marine-power sector of
   its own and offers extra cash to less mature technologies.

   Not everyone is enthusiastic. When the Wave Hub was announced, Cornish
   surfers worried that it might make their tubes less gnarly. Others are
   more concerned about the price. Mr Edge reckons that the Danes spent
   around £1 billion creating their wind-turbine industry. Setting up a
   British marine-power sector will cost a similar amount, he says--a big
   jump from the £28m Wave Hub.


   How far can Nick Clegg take the party he now leads?

                                                                      EPA
                                                                      EPA

                                                       Nick's close shave

   IF INDIFFERENCE is crueller than mockery, the Liberal Democrats, who
   elected a new leader, Nick Clegg, on December 18th, must be piqued.
   The nation hardly noticed the contest between the 40-year-old former
   home affairs spokesman and Chris Huhne, who held the environment
   brief, to replace Sir Menzies Campbell, who resigned in October. Even
   a tight finish (the winning margin was 511 votes out of 41,465 cast)
   was not enough to lend the announcement a sense of import.

   Yet the Lib Dems are an important party. They won 22% of votes cast in
   the 2005 general election, and have not slipped below 16% in any
   election since 1992. Britain's first-past-the-post electoral system
   gives them only 62 of Parliament's 646 MPs (hence their enthusiasm for
   proportional voting models), but that tally still represents a
   post-war peak for a third party at Westminster.

   The Lib Dems' ability to command such support partly explains why no
   party may be able to get an overall parliamentary majority at the next
   election. John Curtice, a psephologist at Strathclyde University,
   reckons that, all else being equal, a 20% share of the vote for the
   Liberal Democrats would leave the Tories needing to win by more than
   9% to govern alone.

   But the Lib Dems have struggled recently, falling to 12% in the polls
   under Sir Menzies. The plunge was attributed to his lacklustre
   leadership (he looked older than his 66 years), as well as strong
   performances first from Labour, after Gordon Brown took over in June,
   and then from the Conservatives after the prime minister ducked
   calling a general election. Coming just a year-and-a-half after their
   previous leadership contest--prompted by the resignation of Charles
   Kennedy over confessed drink problems--Sir Menzies's departure made
   the Lib Dems look divided and inconsequential.

   Yet there are signs of recovery in the polls, for which Mr Clegg can
   thank not only the government's woes but also Vince Cable, the
   treasury spokesman who served as an interim leader. Aged 64, he did
   not take part in the contest, but his intellect and wit--he mocked the
   transformation of Mr Brown "from Stalin to Mr Bean"--have made many
   wish he had.

   Confidence in Mr Clegg's ability to build on Mr Cable's stewardship
   has cooled. His campaign did not show the vigour needed to win media
   coverage for a third party. But he has youth and charisma on his side.
   That he embodies his party's classical liberal wing--rather than the
   social-democratic one that Mr Huhne pitched to--will also help in the
   many constituencies it is defending from the Tories.

   If a hung parliament does materialise, the Lib Dems could be
   king-makers--entering a coalition government with either of the main
   parties. The Tories already appear to be courting them. On December
   15th David Cameron, the Conservative leader, invited them to
   co-operate with his party on decentralisation. For Mr Cameron to be
   wooing a party unpopular with his own suggests he knows how limited
   his options may be after the next election.

   The Lib Dems, though, are rarely smug about the pivotal role they
   could play at that point. And with reason: they have reached nothing
   approaching a consensus on which of the two main parties they would
   prefer as partners, or whether coalition would be acceptable at all.
   The party's activists are to the left of its leadership and would
   struggle to accept a deal with the Tories. Yet propping up a tired
   Labour government they regard as indifferent to civil liberties and
   the environment would be scarcely more palatable.

   Burdens as well as opportunities, then, for Mr Clegg. The attention
   his victory received was modest; the influence he may come to wield is
   anything but.


   Rates stay on hold, but not for long


   BUSINESS lobbies cajoled, politicians hinted. It was to no avail. The
   response from the Bank of England this week was as stony as its façade
   in Threadneedle Street. The central bank resisted the pleas to cut
   interest rates for a second month running.

   As in December, when the bank lowered the base rate from 5.75% to
   5.5%, its monetary-policy committee (MPC) faced a quandary. On the one
   hand, the exhibits pointing to a sharp slowdown caused by the credit
   crunch are piling up ominously. On the other hand, the menace of a
   renewed bout of inflation is looming larger.

   There was a strong case for repeating the prescription of lower
   interest rates this month. Business volumes in the big
   financial-services sector have recently been dropping at the fastest
   pace since the depths of the recession of the early 1990s, according
   to a report this week from the CBI, an employers' organisation. This
   chimed with the Bank of England's own findings on the credit market,
   published on January 3rd. The survey showed steep declines in the
   availability of credit in the last three months of 2007 compared with
   the previous quarter. Lenders said that they were expecting further
   sharp falls in the first three months of 2008.

   Tighter credit is already constricting the housing market. In November
   only 83,000 mortgage loans to buy homes were approved, compared with
   an average monthly total of 110,000 over the previous five years. The
   annual rate of house-price inflation has halved since last autumn,
   falling from 10.7% in September to 5.2% in December, according to
   HBOS, a bank.

   With consumer confidence at a low ebb, shops are feeling the pinch.
   The British Retail Consortium reported the weakest sales in December
   for three years. Retailers' share prices have been wilting further on
   fears of a consumer slowdown this year (see chart). Marks & Spencer's
   price nosedived on January 9th after Britain's biggest clothing
   retailer reported tough trading conditions.

   As household spending sags, exports are unlikely to provide much
   offsetting support for economic growth because the international
   outlook has darkened again. Following very weak employment and
   manufacturing figures, some economists are now arguing that America
   may already have slipped into recession. The euro area is in better
   shape, but its economy is set to slow appreciably in 2008.

   The deterioration in Britain's outlook for growth might have pointed
   to a rate cut this month but the central bank also had to take into
   account worsening inflation prospects. Consumer-price inflation is
   only just above the government's 2.0% target, but the recent surge in
   world oil and gas prices will feed through to higher domestic
   inflation in the months ahead. Petrol prices have continued to rise
   and home-energy costs are now on the way up.

   Weakness in the pound, reflecting worries about a slowing British
   economy, is also likely to push up inflation. Sterling's
   trade-weighted value has slipped by 4% since the MPC met in December
   and is now 9% lower than in July 2007. Putting it all together,
   consumer-price inflation will rise to 2.4% in January and to 2.9% in
   September, according to new forecasts from Barclays Capital, an
   investment bank.

   The resurgence in inflationary pressures in early 2008 will coincide
   with the peak period for negotiating new pay deals. At such a
   sensitive time, the Bank of England needed to demonstrate its
   commitment to keeping inflation under control, in order to avoid a
   destabilising wage-price spiral. A sharp reduction since mid-December
   in the spread of interbank lending rates over the base rate gave the
   MPC room for manoeuvre. Provided the committee feels that inflationary
   expectations remain in check, it will cut rates again soon in order to
   fend off a severe downturn.


   Medicine: A new approach to proton-beam radiotherapy, which allows
   treatment to be precisely targeted, could make it more widely
   available

   RADIOTHERAPY, the use of radiation zipping through the DNA of cancer
   cells to kill them or halt their reproduction, has always had the
   disadvantage of causing collateral damage to healthy tissue. But some
   forms of radiation are worse than others. One of the best is a beam of
   protons. Unlike X-rays, the standard radiotherapeutic tool, a proton
   beam can be tuned in a way that causes it to dump its destructive
   energy at a particular depth beneath the skin. This means it can
   destroy a tumour without damaging other tissue. Unfortunately, the
   machines needed to generate such beams weigh several hundred tonnes
   and cost $100m or more to build. So although proton therapy has been
   available since 1990, there are still only about 25 clinics around the
   world that offer it.

   An announcement at a meeting of the American Association of Physicists
   in Medicine, held in Minneapolis in July, could change this, however.
   Thomas Mackie of the University of Wisconsin has a new approach that
   he hopes will bring the cost of a proton-therapy machine down to $20m
   and the space required to a smallish room.

   The dielectric-wall accelerator (DWA) that lies at the heart of Dr
   Mackie's machine was designed in the 1990s at the Lawrence Livermore
   National Laboratory in California as a portable X-ray source. At
   first, it was used to accelerate electrons rather than protons. Those
   electrons were smashed into a metal target to generate the high-energy
   X-rays that Livermore's physicists needed to peek inside ageing bombs
   and check that they were still in working order. But Dennis Matthews,
   one of Livermore's more medically minded programme directors, realised
   that by changing the polarity of the machine it could be used to
   accelerate positively charged protons, rather than negatively charged
   electrons. He then teamed up with the cancer centre at the University
   of California, Davis, to investigate the possibility of using a DWA
   for proton therapy.

   The advantage of the DWA is its small size. Like all particle
   accelerators, it uses an electric field to speed up electrically
   charged particles. Most accelerators, however, speed up the particles
   over a long distance, using a moderate field. The DWA employs a
   succession of enormous fields over just a couple of metres.

   That it is able to do so is the result of two technical advances. The
   first is an arrangement of insulating materials and conductors called
   a high-gradient insulator. Every insulator has a threshold beyond
   which the electrons are ripped off its component atoms and it becomes
   a conductor. Livermore's high-gradient insulator, though, damps down
   the early stages of this ripping process and creates a threshold so
   high that it can support the electric fields the DWA requires.

   The second advance is a way of switching thousands of volts on and off
   in a few billionths of a second, a previously impossible feat. This
   requires a trick opposite to the first one--suddenly making an
   insulator into a conductor. The insulator in question is silicon
   carbide. When hit with laser light of the correct frequency, it
   becomes conductive.

   The DWA, then, is a tube with an inner wall made of the high-gradient
   insulator and a series of silicon carbide switches along its length.
   As the switches are hit by a carefully timed sequence of laser pulses,
   a powerful electric field is created. Viewed from inside the tube,
   this field looks like an accelerating electrical pulse, and it is this
   pulse that picks up and carries the electrons--or, if the polarity is
   reversed, the protons.

   Once Davis's scientists had pronounced the general idea sound, they
   and Dr Matthews looked around for a commercial collaborator. They lit
   on a firm called TomoTherapy, which is where Dr Mackie came in--for,
   besides working at Wisconsin, he is also TomoTherapy's co-founder. At
   the moment the firm sells machines that tune traditional, X-ray-based
   radiotherapy to make it more effective. The idea is to adapt the
   techniques the firm has developed for controlling X-rays to control
   protons. It will take a while to determine whether this will work. But
   if it does, radiation therapy for cancer could become a lot less
   traumatic and a lot more effective.


   The sleaze spreads north 

   FOR Gordon Brown, the party-funding scandal which has already claimed
   the job of the Labour Party's general secretary, Peter Watt, and
   threatens senior figures in the government shows no sign of going
   away. It has instead spread north to his native Scotland, where Wendy
   Alexander, Labour's leader in the devolved Parliament, is fighting to
   save her career.

   The sum involved in Ms Alexander's case (£950, or $1,960) is comically
   small next to the more than £660,000 given to the Labour Party by
   David Abrahams, a Newcastle businessman, through intermediaries. Yet
   Ms Alexander, seen but recently as the Scottish Labour Party's shining
   hope, boobed tremendously. To finance her leadership campaign (which,
   since she was the only candidate, was not a costly affair) she raised
   £16,000, including £950 from Paul Green. A property developer who
   lives in the Channel Islands, Mr Green cannot vote in British
   elections, so accepting his cash was against the law.

   Ms Alexander maintains that she was led to believe the money came from
   a Glasgow company controlled by Mr Green. But the company denies any
   knowledge of the donation. Mr Green insists it was a personal
   contribution, even brandishing a letter of thanks from Ms Alexander
   sent to his Jersey home. One head has already rolled: Charlie Gordon,
   a Labour Member of the Scottish Parliament (MSP) from Glasgow, who
   solicited Mr Green's donation, has resigned as the party's transport
   spokesman. But this has failed to pacify those such as Sir Alistair
   Graham, a former chairman of Westminster's Committee on Standards in
   Public Life, who believe that Ms Alexander should consider her
   position, too.

   Many wonder whether Ms Alexander, who claims that a pile of evidence
   sent to the Electoral Commission will clear her, is under orders from
   Mr Brown to stand firm. Resigning would, after all, increase pressure
   on Harriet Harman, the Labour deputy leader, who accepted money from
   Mr Abrahams's intermediary during her campaign for that post, and on
   Peter Hain, the work and pensions secretary, who failed to declare a
   £5,000 donation during the same race. It would also have some
   importance for Mr Brown himself. Ms Alexander is his protégée; her
   brother, Douglas Alexander, is his international-development secretary
   and one of his closest advisers.

   The prime minister may also want Ms Alexander to remain because he
   trusts no one else to revive Scottish Labour's bleak fortunes. Up
   against a Scottish National Party (SNP) that echoes Scottish public
   opinion in urging stronger devolved government, on November 30th she
   proposed a constitutional commission to examine the case for more
   powers. With Mr Brown's approval, she argued that it should consider
   more tax-raising powers and a new funding settlement for the United
   Kingdom's four constituent nations.

   Conservatives and Liberal Democrats like the idea, seeing it as a
   unionist counter-thrust against the Nationalists' ambitions for
   full-blown independence. The hardest sell is to Scottish Labour
   itself, which is suspicious of anything that looks like doing the
   SNP's job for them. "Is there anyone else with the clout with Gordon
   Brown to see this through?" wonders one Tory MSP. "I don't think so."

   So more than Ms Alexander's fate rests on whether the Electoral
   Commission concludes that she took "reasonable steps" to check that
   the £950 donation was legal, and therefore did not "knowingly" accept
   an illegal gift. If it does not, she is likely to go the same way as
   Mr Watt and Mr Gordon. That would make life even tougher for the
   beleaguered Mr Brown.


   Is the health service really so good?


   "SICKO", the latest film from the left-wing American agitpropagandist
   Michael Moore, has already drawn a lot of comment for its favourable
   comparison of health care in Cuba with that in the United States. But
   Mr Moore does not reserve all his praise for the tiny Communist
   island. He lavishes admiration on Britain's National Health Service,
   presenting a vision of helpful staff and generous treatment.

   Britons themselves might doubt details of this assessment. In the past
   decade the government has increased spending on the NHS at a record
   rate, but the political pay-off has been abysmal. Polls show that
   people now reckon the Conservatives have better policies on health
   than Labour does. The number telling pollsters that the NHS has become
   worse since 1997 greatly exceeds those who say it has improved. On May
   23rd Patricia Hewitt, the health secretary, fought to survive a vote
   of no confidence in the House of Commons.

   Yet a recent report from the Commonwealth Fund, a health-policy
   think-tank in America, seems to side with Mr Moore. Comparing health
   care in six developed countries, it ranks Britain top. Germany comes
   second, followed by Australia and New Zealand in joint third place,
   and then Canada. America is last. Britain has seized the top spot
   after coming third in the two previous surveys, in 2004 and 2006.

   The report is a welcome antidote to unthinking pessimism about the
   NHS, but its rosy view is open to question. The survey uses 69
   indicators to rank the countries in five areas: quality, access,
   equity, outcomes and efficiency. Offering free health care to all, the
   NHS does unsurprisingly well on equity, but it comes fourth on health
   outcomes and access. What pushes it into top place overall is that it
   ranks first on quality and efficiency.

   On both of these counts, the scoring is debatable. Britain gets the
   best mark for quality even though it has the joint-worst score for the
   proportion of patients reporting an infection in hospital. This seems
   a more important failure than coming last, as Canada did, in prompting
   doctors by computer to give patients a test result. Yet both
   indicators are given the same weight.

   The efficiency rating is based on an eclectic range of indicators,
   such as health-care spending as a share of GDP and whether patients
   visit hospitals' emergency departments for conditions that could have
   been treated by family doctors. The individual comparisons may be
   revealing, but the sum of the parts does not measure efficiency, which
   is how effectively a system turns inputs into outputs.

   Perhaps most important, the indicators are skewed towards the services
   of family doctors. Britain has long won plaudits for the primary care
   delivered by its GPs. The real worries have been about hospitals,
   especially the long waiting times for elective operations. Although
   excessive waits have been slashed, there are still almost 700,000
   people on the waiting list.

   And now it looks as if Labour's reforms in primary care are
   backfiring. A new contract for GPs pushed up their average pay by 23%
   in its first year, though their workload dropped by more than five
   hours a week between 2004 and 2005. Practices open on Saturdays are a
   thing of the past.

   Gordon Brown, the prime minister to be, has promised to improve access
   to GPs at weekends and in the evenings. He will have to do more.
   However the NHS ranks internationally, what counts at home is that
   Labour has got poor value for the extra money poured into it.


   Technology and society: Is the outbreak of cancer videos, bulimia
   blogs and other forms of "user generated" medical information a
   healthy trend?


   VIDEOS of skateboarding dogs on YouTube might not appear to have
   anything to do with blogs about living with asthma. But the rise of
   "user-generated content"--spurred by sites such as YouTube, Facebook
   and Wikipedia--has also infected health care. Millions are now logging
   on to contribute information about topics stretching from avian-flu
   pandemics to the extraction of wisdom teeth or the use of acupuncture
   to overcome infertility. You could call it user-generated health care,
   or Health 2.0.

   In some ways this is nothing new. The BrainTalk Communities, an online
   support group for neurology patients, began in 1993. But content now
   comes in different forms, such as blogs and videos, and there are many
   more contributors. More than 20% of American internet users have
   created some sort of health-related content, according to Jupiter, a
   market-research firm. The hype around "Web 2.0" has made people aware
   of the new possibilities, says John Grohol, a psychologist who
   launched PsychCentral.com, a mental-health website, in 1995. The
   result, he says, has been a "snowball effect" of new content and new
   users.

   To gauge the size of this snowball, look at OrganizedWisdom, a firm
   based in New York. It launched in October 2006 as a health-care
   Wikipedia of sorts: a site to which consumers could contribute their
   own nuggets of health wisdom. Yet after only a few months it
   transformed itself into an index of the existing web content. The
   firm's founders had discovered that there already was quite enough
   user-generated health information online; the real problem was finding
   the good stuff.

   The explosion of user-generated content in health care is, in part,
   the result of broader internet trends: more and more people have
   broadband access and the tools for creating content are getting easier
   to use. New software, for instance, makes it easy to launch and
   maintain a site such as FluWikie (which provides information about
   preparing for an influenza pandemic), and digital cameras make it a
   snap to take and upload photos of, say, epigastric hernia surgery.

   But there are other drivers, too. Those with multiple chronic
   conditions, such as diabetes and depression, or lesser-known illnesses
   such as chronic fatigue syndrome, are anxious to get tips from others
   in similar situations. And today's body of medical knowledge is too
   vast for any one doctor to know it all. Cathy Fischer, a producer at a
   non-profit television company in San Francisco, for example, was not
   getting the information she needed from her doctor. So she joined an
   online group to connect with others who, like her, had undergone
   fibroid surgery.

   In some ways it is strange that there is so much discussion of
   health-related matters online, given that health, like money, is a
   topic that many people will not discuss even with family members.
   People do not seem to realise how permanent information can be online,
   warns Jennifer King, a researcher at the University of California in
   Berkeley. She worries that personal data could be misused. Some sites
   mitigate that risk by recommending the use of pseudonyms. So Meg7
   talks about her family's struggle with Lou Gehrig's disease, Aprilly
   shares information about babies with colic, and jojo1972 writes about
   how she handles migraine headaches.

   Misinformation is another worry. On the internet, as the old saying
   goes, nobody knows you are a dog--or an idiot, notes Dan Keldsen of
   AIIM, a non-profit association based in Silver Spring, Maryland, which
   helps companies manage digital information. And too much health
   information can confuse people, says Monique Levy of Jupiter. But a
   survey by the Pew Internet & American Life Project in Washington, DC,
   suggests that although user-generated information offers consumers
   more health options, the upside outweighs the risk, says Pew's
   Susannah Fox. Nearly one-third of the 100m Americans who have looked
   for health information online say that they or people they know have
   been significantly helped by what they found. In contrast, only 3%
   reported that online advice had caused serious harm.

   A lot of user-generated health information is accurate. A panel of
   neurology specialists judged that only 6% of information posted in the
   epilepsy-support group of BrainTalk was factually wrong, according to
   a study published in 2004 in the British Medical Journal. And with
   enough people online, misinformation is often quickly corrected.
   Inaccurate posts on the [3]website of the Association of Cancer Online
   Resources (ACOR), for example, will be pointed out within two hours,
   says Gilles Frydman, the founder of the association, based in New
   York.

   In some cases web-based information from other sufferers can be a
   patient's best hope. In the BrainTalk study, 40% of respondents said
   they used the site because their doctors did not or could not answer
   their questions. But the internet's power to connect people means that
   a person diagnosed with a rare form of cancer can find hundreds of
   other people across the world who can recommend doctors or provide
   first-hand information about treatment, explains Mr Frydman. He
   founded ACOR in 1996 after his wife was given inaccurate information
   about the treatment she needed for breast cancer. Given the potential
   benefits, the risk of giving up some privacy seems insignificant, he
   says. "If I am diagnosed with a rare cancer, I will think for two
   minutes, and then I will agree that giving up my privacy is
   worthwhile."

   Some observers expect even greater benefits from user-generated health
   sites in future. Patients who live with chronic diseases such as
   epilepsy often know more about them than their doctors, contends
   Daniel Hoch, a professor at Harvard Medical School who helped to found
   BrainTalk. Many doctors, he says, "don't get the wisdom of crowds."
   But he thinks the combined knowledge of a crowd of his patients would
   be far greater than his own. A wiki capturing the knowledge of, say,
   300 epileptics could be invaluable not only to others with epilepsy,
   but also to the medical professionals who care for them. Their
   aggregated understanding, he says, "would be helpful to all health
   care."


                                                                       PA

                                     PA

   O Tempora! O Mores! 

   DEMONSTRATORS outside Parliament rarely wear togas and brandish
   placards written in classical Greek. They did this week. The reason
   was a decision by education bureaucrats to drop a national history
   exam for 18-year-olds. If the protest naught avails, ancient history
   will no longer be taught in English schools, for the first time since
   the original Dark Ages.

   The decision to axe the A-level was taken hurriedly and in secret,
   without consulting the schools that teach ancient history or the
   universities that like it. And it comes at a time when the decline in
   classics in schools has reversed. A recent book on Latin grammar,
   "Amo, Amas, Amat", became a surprise best-seller. The number of state
   schools offering basic Latin has risen from 200 in 2003 to 459 today.
   Though some of the Thucydides-loving demonstrators were from elite
   private schools, others were from grungy further-education colleges.

   As they waited for Boris Johnson, the Tory education spokesman, to
   address them (in Latin), the pupil-protesters chanted "Long live
   Athens! Down with Sparta". Fine sentiments. But remember what happened
   to Athens.


   After a tumultuous year, there may be a decisive shift in British
   politics in 2008



   IN SOME parts of the world iconic statues are toppled, barricades
   erected or the bodies of autocrats strung up in piazzas. In British
   politics, "tipping points"--moments when an outbreak of sentiment
   becomes an epidemic, a trend becomes destiny and a leader's fate is
   sealed--tend to be visible only at a distance. That, of course, does
   not stop people spotting them immediately.

   In the last few months of 2007, much of the political class has
   confidently predicted the end of Labour's long imperium--though there
   is disagreement over which of the superabundant governmental
   calamities represented the decisive moment. The run on Northern Rock?
   The "bottled" non-election? The weird funding scandal (unlikely, since
   most people already assume that politicians are more crooked than they
   actually are)? Or "Discgate", about which senior Conservatives are so
   cock-a-hoop that they jokingly offered to pay for the letters sent to
   the 7m families whose details were lost in the post?

   In fact, British politics may well have tipped in 2007. But in
   hindsight it may turn out to have done so in a different, subtler,
   perhaps more important way.

   For future historians, the year's most salient event will probably be
   neither the bounce and fall of Gordon Brown, nor the summer fall and
   autumnal second coming of David Cameron, the Tory leader. It will be
   the descent of the final curtain (aeons ago, it already seems) on the
   great actor-prime minister, Tony Blair. One of Mr Blair's legacies,
   energetically embraced by Mr Cameron, is a politics of emulation, in
   which the distinction between the two big parties is more thespian and
   less ideological than it was before he commandeered the Labour Party.
   In this Mr Blair was himself responding to more fundamental shifts in
   British society: the decline of the old industrial economy, the spread
   and sharpening of aspiration, and the resulting obsolescence of
   political competition based on class interests.

   The flip side of Mr Blair's electoral success--two landslide victories
   and one limping, post-Iraq win--is the waning of traditional party
   allegiances. For Mr Brown, Mr Cameron and future Tory and Labour
   leaders, that means the old blocks of voters that their parties have
   been able to rely on (roughly a third of the country in both cases)
   are shrinking. The prejudices that once inhibited voters from
   switching directly between the main parties are evaporating too.
   Moreover, voters are not only more floaty than they once were: there
   are also fewer of them. British politicians--like those in other
   advanced democracies--face the awkward dual challenges of fickleness
   and indifference. Sceptical of the impact that mere national
   government has on their lives, growing minorities are declining to
   vote altogether (though the French election suggests that some
   contests are galvanising enough to arrest that trend); other voters
   are deserting mainstream parties for single-issue alternatives.

   The real import of the past year's political volatility may lie not in
   who is up and down at the end of it, but in the volatility itself. The
   polls, which now show the Tories sailing above 40%--closing on the
   numbers they need to win an outright majority at the next
   election--have been too erratic to foretell the outcome reliably;
   earlier in 2007 they seemed to presage a hung parliament, and then the
   final extinction of Conservatism. Instead they may suggest that the
   year of Mr Blair's exit marked the start of a new epoch of fluid,
   yo-yoing, 21st-century politics.

   So the answer to the parlour-game question, about which of Mr Brown's
   2007 mishaps was decisive, is: none of them. Still, for all the
   fluidity, that more parochial tipping point--the one that seals Mr
   Brown's fate--may come during 2008.

   Even in a newly unstable political era, there will be times when
   reputations dip too low to be recovered, or when a party's momentum
   becomes, in the short term, almost impossible to stop. Mr Brown may
   well wait as long as he can, until 2010, to go to the country; but it
   is nevertheless likely that 2008 will reveal whether his current slump
   is remediable (as slumps can be), and whether Mr Cameron's own bounce
   is to flatten (like those of other recent Tory leaders).

   An Englishman's home, a Scotsman's fate

   The impact made by Nick Clegg, the newly anointed energetic leader of
   the Liberal Democrats, will affect both men's prospects. So will three
   other, related variables. The first and most straightforward is
   geographic. To win an election, the Tories need to start doing better
   in some suburban bits of the Midlands, Yorkshire and Lancashire that
   embraced Margaret Thatcher but that Mr Cameron has so far failed to
   seduce. The worry for him is that the tactics and pledges that have
   strengthened Tory support in the south-east will flop, or even
   backfire, farther north.

   The second factor is atmospheric. At the moment many voters are
   looking resentfully at Labour's record in office through the
   refractive lens of recent debacles. Will that distaste harden into a
   settled conviction that Mr Brown's number is up? Government is in part
   the business of losing friends and disappointing people, and by the
   end of 2008 it may be clear whether Labour has simply lost and
   disappointed too many to win a fourth term. Mr Cameron, meanwhile,
   needs to allay residual fears about his callowness, and doubts about
   the personality of his party.

   The third factor, stupid, is the economy. There are a lot of crazily
   leveraged homeowners in Britain; if the economic slowdown and the
   credit crunch make their mortgages a lot tougher to service, Mr Brown
   may be tipped vertiginously towards eventual defeat. Until a few
   months ago, he could feasibly have hoped that economic troubles could
   be politically useful to him, with his undeniable experience and
   reputed competence. Not any more. The long-term prospects of all three
   parties depend on how they adapt to the new, fragmented, fickle
   politics. But in 2008, old-fashioned concerns may predominate.


   Migration has once again become a touchy political issue

   UNTIL recently, politicians who inveighed against immigration could
   expect support from an angry minority of voters in many Western
   countries. Some, like Australia's Pauline Hanson, won moments in the
   limelight and then faded away. Others got closer to political power:
   in France in 2002 the anti-immigrant Jean-Marie Le Pen reached the
   run-off stage of the presidential election; Denmark's centre-right
   government has been kept in office with support from an anti-migrant
   party; and in Austria in 2000 Jörg Haider's far-right party joined a
   coalition government. On each occasion this was controversial, but
   could be explained as a quirk of the electoral system, not a
   reflection of widespread anti-migrant sentiment.

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

                                                          Woolly thinking

   Today, however, hostility to immigration is becoming mainstream.
   Britain's prime minister, Gordon Brown, whose Labour government has
   allowed remarkably high rates of immigration for years, recently
   called for "British jobs for British workers", a meaningless slogan
   previously used by the far-right National Front. The opposition
   Conservatives' leader, David Cameron, says he wants to see
   "substantially lower" immigration. Both government and opposition say
   they will keep out workers from Bulgaria and Romania, along with those
   from any other new EU members, for as long as possible.

   In France Nicolas Sarkozy campaigned for the presidency in 2007
   sounding as hostile to foreigners as Mr Le Pen, and swept to office.
   He is now proposing immigration policies that have liberals quivering
   with anger. Most controversially, a new law passed in November will
   allow DNA testing of immigrants' relatives who apply to come to France
   under a family reunification programme.

   Italian politicians whipped up violence against migrants after the
   death of a woman in Rome last October, allegedly at the hands of a
   Romanian Roma (gypsy). Officials ordered the expulsion of Romanians
   with criminal records and set about bulldozing migrants' camps. Local
   thugs took that as a cue to beat up foreigners in the streets.

   In countries where proportional representation gives a say to small
   parties, support for anti-immigrant populists has gradually risen. The
   second-largest grouping in Norway's parliament is the misnamed
   Progress Party, which wants to discourage the entry of
   "far-foreigners" (migrants from beyond the Nordic region, especially
   dark-skinned ones). The right-of-centre People's Party in Switzerland,
   which had campaigned with a crude poster showing white sheep booting
   out a black one, got 29% of the vote in elections last October.

   Across the Atlantic, mainstream candidates for the 2008 presidential
   elections are lining up to talk tough about border controls and
   cracking down on illegal migrants. The dramatic collapse of an
   immigration-reform bill in the Senate in June, despite the support of
   President George Bush and the leaders of both the Democrats and
   Republicans in both houses of Congress, signalled that many ordinary
   voters are troubled by high rates of immigration. A coalition of radio
   hosts and internet activists arranged for opponents of reform to send
   1.5m faxes to senators and congressmen in June.

   Roy Beck, who heads NumbersUSA, one of the internet activist groups,
   says that membership of his organisation has grown from just 3,000
   active members in 2001 to more than 490,000 today. He also claims an
   e-mail list of 1.6m sympathisers from across the political spectrum.
   Some of the anxiety may be explained by worries about economics,
   language, crime and a general fear of the outside world raised by
   terrorism. More important, he suggests, is anger about the presence in
   the country of perhaps 12m illegal immigrants. He wants to see the
   number reduced by things like deportation, stronger fences and fines
   for employers who use illegal labour.

   The camel's nose

   Opponents condemned the Senate reform bill as an amnesty: "It teaches
   aliens that all they have to do is get in and wait. It is letting the
   camel's nose into the tent, the rest follows," says Mr Beck. But the
   bill would not have been a soft option. It envisaged higher spending
   on border defences and an obstacle course on the way to legal
   residence. Applicants for legal status would have had to pay $5,000
   and return home to await a decision. Yet the bill damaged the
   presidential chances of John McCain, a Republican senator who supports
   reform.

   Immigration is likely to prove a divisive factor in some states in the
   2008 presidential election. Republican strategists think voters are
   especially troubled by migration where there have been big new
   inflows, for example in the south-east (see map). Democrats are
   divided. Some are anxious not to alienate their traditional and
   growing support among Latinos and new migrant voters who might help to
   swing states such as New Mexico, Utah, Nevada and Arizona. But others
   want to get tough in places like Virginia, a formerly solid Republican
   stronghold that might be up for grabs, where rapid immigration has
   provoked anger. For Mr Beck this is an opportunity to push Democrats
   to take a harder line on immigrants, just as they have done in other
   policy areas: "To win competitive elections, Democrats now often
   oppose gun control," he says. "I want immigration to be an issue like
   guns."

   Perhaps the surprise is not that American voters are now reacting to
   high immigration, but that it has taken them so long. The last time
   the share of foreigners in America's population was anything like as
   high as now, in 1913 (when it was 15%, including illegals), the public
   demanded, and eventually got, tough limits on migration that slowed
   the inflow for decades. Nearly a century on, a similar dramatic
   clampdown seems unlikely, but hostility could slow the flow of legal
   migration, and greater efforts will be made to crack down on
   undocumented migrants.

   Yet public hostility to migration should not be overstated. In Spain
   and Greece, for example, natives seem relatively at ease with a big
   influx, at least as long as their economies are doing well. For some
   analysts the backlash against immigration is part of a wider response
   from hard-up activists who feel that elites do not properly represent
   their interests. But many people in host countries also see the gains
   from migration--and indeed some of them try it out for themselves.
   Some 5.5m British nationals, for example, currently live abroad, many
   in Spain, Australia and Greece. That amounts to nearly a tenth of the
   population back home, putting Britain on a par with Mexico as an
   exporter of people.


   The Bank of England stands firm, but cuts are on the way


   LIKE some poltergeist, the financial crisis keeps on thumping
   confidence just as it seems about to return. This week there was much
   alarm when Mervyn King, governor of the Bank of England, said it would
   take several more months before banks revealed all the losses they
   have incurred and took the necessary action to deal with them. His
   warning followed significant declines in the price of British bank
   shares. On top of all that, the world oil price has continued to soar,
   pushing the average price of petrol up to £1 ($2.10) a litre.

   Yet on November 8th the central bank's monetary-policy committee once
   again decided to keep the base rate at 5.75%--the level it has been at
   since July. The main reason for the decision was the continuing
   resilience of the British economy. The latest figures for GDP show no
   sign of the recent financial turmoil. National output grew in the year
   to the third quarter by 3.3%, the fastest increase for three years and
   well above the underlying growth rate of around 2.5-2.75%.

   The recent upswing has been boosted by a sharp recovery in business
   investment but it also owes much to the fact that consumers are still
   in fine fettle. Retail-sales growth has picked up, reaching 5.2% in
   the third quarter compared with the same period in 2006. One reason is
   that the housing market, although showing some signs of weakness, has
   remained sprightlier than expected. Though house prices fell by 0.5%
   in October, according to HBOS, a bank, they rose by 1.1%, on figures
   from the Nationwide Building Society.

   While GDP growth has remained buoyant, the rate-setters have been
   reluctant to ease policy. After all, it wasn't that long ago that Mr
   King had to write a public letter explaining an inflationary
   overshoot. Inflation has since subsided to a level below the
   government's target, but the bank worries that it may rebound as an
   economy with little spare capacity runs at full tilt. And although
   sterling has strengthened markedly against the dollar, reaching $2.10
   on November 7th, its overall trade-weighted value has slipped by
   around 2% in the past three months, which will add to inflationary
   pressure.

   Yet most in the City think the bank will cut rates before long. In a
   sign that the economy is now starting to slow, manufacturing output
   fell by 0.6% from August to September. More worrying still was a
   downbeat report from the services sector, which dwarfs manufacturing
   as a share of the economy. The purchasing managers' survey reported a
   pronounced slowdown in activity in October, bringing it down to its
   lowest level since May 2003.

   These declines are consistent with the first impact of the feared
   credit crunch, as banks raise their lending rates and become more
   reluctant to make loans. And since the financial malaise is not
   confined to Britain, the economy will be hurt by slowing exports.
   Prospects for growth in America and the euro area are being scaled
   back.

   Britain's economy will also take a hit as the City suffers from the
   slowdown in international financial activity. Business investment too
   is likely to slacken in the months to come, partly because the overall
   economic outlook has darkened and partly as a consequence of tighter
   credit.

   The main worry, however, is that consumers will finally pull in their
   horns. The recent strength of household spending (see chart) is a
   minor miracle given that disposable income has been creeping ahead at
   its slowest rate since 1982. A drop in saving made this possible, but
   consumers are now likely to respond to tighter credit and slowing
   house prices by rebuilding their finances and curbing their spending.

   So although Britain's central bank has yet to follow America's in
   cutting interest rates in response to the credit crunch, this seems
   only a matter of timing. The bank will set out new projections for
   growth on November 14th, when it publishes its quarterly Inflation
   Report. It will almost certainly signal that monetary easing is on the
   way to counter what otherwise might be too sharp an economic slowdown.


   As the NHS turns 60, politicians fight to blow out the candles 


   NO SOONER had the new year begun than the parties grabbed scalpels and
   started scrapping for advantage in the operating theatre. In a message
   to health-service staff, Gordon Brown said this would be "the year in
   which we demonstrate beyond a doubt that the NHS is as vital for our
   next 60 years as it was for our last". Since Labour founded the health
   service in 1948--an act opposed then by the Tories--the prime
   minister's letter was pure politics. For his part, David Cameron, the
   Conservative leader, proclaimed an audacious ambition for the Tories
   "to replace Labour as the party of the NHS" in 2008.

   The intense political focus on the health service springs from
   continuing public worries about its condition. Over the past decade,
   it has generally been rated the most important issue facing Britain,
   according to Ipsos MORI, a pollster. More recently it has slipped
   behind immigration and crime, but over the past year it has usually
   come second or third.

   Even more important in the calculations of the two leaders, Labour no
   longer holds the commanding heights in health-care politics. For
   several years after winning power in 1997, Labour outscored the Tories
   by colossal margins as the party with the best policies for the NHS.
   This lead had collapsed by the time that Tony Blair stepped down as
   prime minister last summer. Beset by his own difficulties, Mr Brown is
   also in trouble. According to a recent poll by Populus, Labour is only
   narrowly ahead of the Tories as the best party for the NHS: 33% of
   respondents backed Labour, 29% preferred the Conservatives.

   The public's loss of faith in Labour is rooted in a sense of
   disappointment that too little has come of the record funding
   increases of the past decade. Although long waits for operations are a
   thing of the past and many more patients are being treated, other
   aspects of the health service are lacklustre. Cancer-survival rates
   are poor by international standards; family doctors no longer see
   patients on Saturdays; and hospital-acquired infections are
   frighteningly frequent. Fuelling public discontent, medical staff are
   astonishingly fed up, even though they have received a string of big
   pay increases.

   Mr Brown is now trying to respond to some of these concerns. A new
   five-year strategy to combat and prevent cancer was unveiled a month
   ago. The government is trying to get family doctors to extend their
   opening hours to evenings and weekends. Improving cleanliness and
   reducing hospital-acquired infections are now high in the NHS's
   objectives for the coming year.

   But Mr Brown being Mr Brown, he has also set up a longer-term review
   as a way to regain the political advantage on health that Labour had
   so carelessly squandered. Within days of becoming prime minister he
   asked Lord Darzi, a surgeon and junior health minister, to set out a
   ten-year vision for the NHS by June 2008. Conveniently, that will be
   just before the much-heralded 60th birthday on July 5th.

   Although an interim report rushed out in October was a damp squib, the
   review will serve two political purposes. First, it will enable Mr
   Brown to set out grand plans for the NHS so that he can make the most
   of the anniversary. Second, the review itself, headed by a prominent
   clinician, is designed to build bridges with medical staff, who have
   been disillusioned by Labour's itch to interfere.

   There are dangers for Mr Brown in his attempt to smarten up Labour's
   health-care looks. In his message on January 1st he held out the
   prospect of a new constitution for the health service, setting out
   "the rights and responsibilities associated with an entitlement to NHS
   care". But this got a dusty reception when it was interpreted as
   meaning a possible denial of care to patients (such as the superfat)
   who fail to do enough themselves to prevent illness.

   One reason why Mr Brown wants to enhance the preventive role of the
   NHS is that the funding bonanza ends in the spring. The prime minister
   has a fight on his hands. If his strategy to rebuild Labour's lead
   fails, it will be the Conservatives under Mr Cameron who will be
   celebrating the 60th anniversary of the NHS.


   The link between British and American politics is less obvious than it
   looks



   THE British attitude to America tends to oscillate between snootiness
   and awed self-deprecation. In the past few weeks, the political class
   has opted for a collective swoon. Like threadbare housewives dreaming
   of American nylons after the war, MPs and others have gazed covetously
   at the televised primaries, with their drama, diverse candidates and
   balloons. "There is an unpredictability, optimism and openness,"
   laments one columnist, "that many on this side of the Atlantic will
   envy." In short: we laughed, we cried, it was better than "The West
   Wing".

   The self-flagellation has often been accompanied by another humbling
   idea: that the outcome of the presidential election will influence,
   even somehow determine, the course of British politics too. "If you
   want to predict Britain's political future," advises another
   commentator, "just look at America." This starstruck fatalism is
   mistaken. American politics does not supply an automatic pattern or
   prophecy for Britain--and it never has.

   Never have been slaves

   The argument that it now does relies in part on an analogy between the
   two main Democratic contenders, on one hand, and Gordon Brown and
   David Cameron, the Tory leader, on the other. There is something to
   it: like Hillary Clinton, the prime minister is a kind of political
   dynast, having inherited his premiership from his long-term political
   partner; his pitch, like hers, rests on his avowed experience. The
   other, slightly less convincing part of the analogy sees Mr Cameron,
   with his relative youth, relatively gifted oratory and intermittent
   hope-mongering, as a sort of Etonian Obama. Mr Cameron encouraged the
   comparison before New Hampshire; since then he has been enthusiastic
   about John McCain and Mrs Clinton too.

   The parallel is superficially plausible because post-war American and
   British politics have indeed tended to mirror each other. Bill Clinton
   and Tony Blair; Reagan and Margaret Thatcher; before them, Eisenhower
   and Macmillan, and JFK and Wilson: the two countries' political cycles
   have often overlapped, and like-minded leaders (albeit less schmaltzy
   in Britain) have coincided. There is a longstanding transatlantic
   trade in tactics and policy ideas, and in consultants, pollsters and
   other political mountebanks. Mr Brown and his fellow New Labourites
   are known to have studied Mr Clinton's victorious 1992 campaign; but
   the phenomenon goes back at least to the influence of Nixon's 1968
   advertising on the Tories. (It is not exclusively west-to-east:
   witness the Tory-influenced Republican attacks on Mr Clinton in 1992,
   and, maybe, the speech his wife made on a John Major-esque soapbox in
   New Hampshire.)

   But the relationship is not--as some comment implies--a causal one. Mr
   Clinton's rise did not cause Mr Blair's; Mrs Thatcher's election did
   not determine Reagan's. Rather, both sets of leaders emerged from
   political circumstances (the cold war and its end, economic
   turbulence) that were themselves similar. Quite apart from the
   doubtful idea that in Britain posh is the new black, the main reason
   the latest analogies don't work is that, socially and politically,
   Britain and America have diverged.

   To simplify, Britain has not had George Bush. The issues dominating
   the primaries--how to get out of Iraq; how to revive the country's
   reputation; how to govern less divisively--don't resonate in the same
   way in Britain. The underlying social rifts--between religious and
   secular voters, and over the culture wars that began in the 1960s--do
   not apply. The '60s happened in Britain too, but most people were
   inside having a cup of tea.

   So, perhaps temporarily, British and American politics have decoupled.
   Insofar as there is a superficial resemblance, it may be because
   American parties face imperatives of a kind that British ones have
   already confronted. As the enthusiasm of some Conservatives (the
   "Obamacons") for Mr Obama suggests, the old correspondence between the
   Tories and the Republicans has broken down--but it seems likely that
   the Republican Party, as a number of its members are already urging,
   will have to embrace environmentalism and cuddly economics as the
   Tories were forced to. Look closely at the Democrats, meanwhile, and
   they seem to be promising more or less what Labour has been offering:
   capitalism with a more human face, better health care and so on. A
   facetious observer might describe Mr Brown as the Scottish Obama--or
   Mr Obama as "the Black Gordon".

   As for the idea that Britain could use more of that American drama: it
   is true that more town-hall meetings and debates among leaders, and
   open "primaries" in constituencies, would enliven elections. But the
   reality is that Britain's parliamentary system, in which voters face
   narrower choices, can never replicate the thrills and surprises of
   presidential campaigns.

   However, another complaint made by the starstruck--that British
   politicians are boringly homogeneous--is unfair. Britain's history,
   like its political system, is different from America's: in particular,
   race is not the schismatic issue in Britain that slavery and
   segregation make it in America. But class plays something like the
   same historical role--and from a class perspective, Britain's recent
   leaders have been impressively eclectic. Mr Major's father was a
   circus artist; Lady Thatcher (who, to remind, is also a woman) was the
   daughter of a shopkeeper. Mr Cameron is the poshest leader the Tories
   have dared to pick for more than 40 years, so far has anti-toff
   prejudice (see Etonian references above) replaced the old upper-crust
   hegemony. Meanwhile another minority--Mr Brown's Scots--is now as
   over-represented in government as the toffs once were.

   So, Bagehot submits, Britain has had its quiet equivalents of the
   Mormon, Evangelist, war hero, woman and black candidates who are
   currently on tour in America. But then, as American visitors may have
   noticed, occasional jingoistic spasms such as this one are as
   characteristic of the British as self-deprecation.


   Why teenagers are losing out to younger viewers

                                                                      BBC

                                    BBC


   FOR fans, it is the biggest scandal since Gonch Gardner made off with
   Mr Bronson's toupee at the swimming pool. "Grange Hill", a BBC
   children's television drama about an inner-city school and its raucous
   pupils, is getting a makeover as it celebrates its 30th anniversary
   this year. Formerly stuffed with edgy teenage storylines--drugs,
   gangs, pregnancy and so on--the next series will instead follow a
   younger cast, pitching more innocent plotlines to an audience of
   under-12s. Blasphemy, according to the programme's creator, Phil
   Redmond, who says it would be better for the series to "hang up its
   mortar board".

   The squeezing out of original programming for teenage viewers is one
   unexpected early consequence of the arrival of multi-channel digital
   television. Children are among the most eager adopters of digital TV,
   and now spend 82% of their viewing time on specialist digital channels
   rather than the old analogue five. Their parents are happy to indulge
   them: 90% of households with children have multi-channel television,
   against 76% of childless homes. More channels have meant lots more
   choice: some 113,000 hours of children's programmes were broadcast in
   2006, compared with 20,000 in 1998.

   But there is a catch: nearly all of this is either imported or
   repeated. By 2006 only 1% of children's broadcasting consisted of
   original material made in Britain. Increased competition for viewers
   from the new channels, as well as bans on advertising junk food during
   children's shows, has made it unprofitable to commission expensive new
   children's programmes. Britain's main commercial broadcasters have
   halved their investment in children's shows since 1998.

   Pre-schoolers are getting the lion's share of what is left, partly
   because they are more likely to watch with their parents, whom
   advertisers will pay more to reach. The BBC, which is funded by a tax
   on households with televisions, has managed to increase its spending
   on children's programmes--yet it too seems to be focusing on younger
   kids. Its children's service, which used to cater for under-16s, was
   redefined in 2006 to attract under-12s away from competitors such as
   Disney and Nickelodeon. Programmes for older children, such as "Grange
   Hill", are having to soften their content accordingly. A new
   teenagers' brand, BBC Switch, was launched in October, but its output
   is slim and mainly on the web, where Beeb bosses reckon teenagers now
   lurk. The television-minded among the over-12s are increasingly left
   to watch adult-oriented programmes or imports for children.

   Does it matter if young people come to consume almost exclusively
   television programmes that are made abroad? It might. "Grange Hill"
   and its ilk tackle awkward subjects that foreign series tend to shy
   away from, and in a British context that makes them more real to
   British children. And television helps to mould national identity.
   Most Britons under 40 can remember "Grange Hill" teachers as vividly
   as their own, and in some circles few things garner more respect than
   a "Blue Peter" badge. (The Economist's own [4]Bagehot has one, though
   he is too modest to wear it.) Finally, exporting programmes is a form
   of soft power. Big Bird is more famous than Condoleezza Rice;
   Britain's best ambassadors could well be the Teletubbies.


                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images

   Despite the summer's plagues, farming looks surprisingly healthy

   GORDON BROWN has not been short of crises since becoming prime
   minister, with everything from incompetent terrorist plots to
   record-breaking floods to contend with. The most recent began on
   August 3rd, when cows at a farm near Guildford, in southern England,
   tested positive for foot-and-mouth disease, a contagious and
   debilitating sickness that mainly affects cloven-hooved animals.

   Britons, an urban people, do not as a rule know much about the
   ailments of livestock, but foot-and-mouth is an exception. The
   previous outbreak, in 2001, was disastrous. Government inaction
   allowed the disease to spread so far that, when steps were at last
   taken to halt it, large swathes of the country had to be closed off.
   The sheer quantity of animal corpses, slaughtered to halt the spread
   of the disease, meant that the army had to help with their disposal
   atop vast, smoking pyres. The total cost, including compensation, was
   eventually put at around £8 billion ($16.2 billion, at today's
   exchange rates).

   This time things look very different. As The Economist went to press,
   the infection seemed confined to two farms in Surrey, with a third
   being tested. The confusion that helped the 2001 crisis to spiral out
   of control was absent. The Department for Environment, Food and Rural
   Affairs (successor to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food,
   which, along with the cows, did not survive the previous outbreak)
   quarantined the farms immediately. Sick animals were culled, livestock
   movements were banned (though later relaxed) and exports halted. Mr
   Brown cut short his holiday to convene the government's snazzily-named
   COBRA emergency committee. Even the European Union praised the
   government's promptness.

   The working hypothesis is that the virus escaped from a nearby
   biological laboratory, where it is used in research and in the
   manufacture of vaccines (see [3]article). The strain found in the
   Surrey cows is an unusual one, and matches exactly a variant used at
   the laboratory.

   Although the outbreak seems to have been contained, it has caused
   plenty of trouble for British livestock farmers. With animal movements
   banned, the meat business is at a standstill. Trade shows and farmers'
   markets are empty; only abattoirs have reopened. The English Beef and
   Lamb Executive reckons the export ban--which will be lifted three
   months after the last case of the disease is confirmed--is costing the
   industry £10m a week.

   The foot-and-mouth outbreak is the latest in a series of
   well-publicised setbacks for farmers. Chaos last summer at the Rural
   Payments Agency, charged with distributing £3 billion of European
   agricultural subsidies, prevented thousands from receiving their cash.
   This year's flooding has drowned crops and spoiled harvests: officials
   reckon that up to a third of Britain's pea crop was ruined, and potato
   and broccoli harvests have suffered too. Even the public has turned
   against farmers, opposing a call by the National Farmers' Union (NFU)
   for a cull of badgers which, the NFU says, transmit tuberculosis to
   cattle.

   Yet despite this dolorous litany, farmers have been doing fairly well
   in recent years. Agriculture is, notoriously, a boom-and-bust
   industry, and the general trend over the past few decades has
   certainly been downwards. A boom in the mid-90s, fuelled by a happy
   alignment of weak sterling (which boosted the value of subsidies from
   the EU and helped exports) and high commodity prices, ended abruptly
   as the pound recovered and BSE, another cattle disease, flared up. But
   farm incomes today are 59% up from their recent nadir in 2000, and
   they rose by around 7% last year. Officials were reckoning recently
   that they would keep rising for several years.

   Those predictions were made before the floods and the appearance of
   foot-and-mouth disease, but there are, nevertheless, good reasons for
   optimism. British agriculture is resilient. Average farm incomes grew
   nicely in 2001, despite the severity of the foot-and-mouth outbreak,
   and that is without counting the enormous £1.1 billion in compensation
   (equal to around half the industry's total income that year) that the
   powerful NFU managed to get for those affected. Indeed, for all the
   wailing, the brunt of the cost was borne not by farmers but by other
   rural businesses, such as pubs and hotels, which were not compensated
   for trade lost while the countryside was closed to the public.

   Despite recent blows, farming is in reasonably good shape these days.
   That is partly down to tight supply in the world market, says Carmen
   Suarez, chief economist at the NFU, citing the drought in Australia,
   which is a big agricultural producer. Others point to America's
   new-found enthusiasm for biofuels, which is diverting land from food
   production to fuel-making. Demand is rising, too, thanks to rapidly
   growing incomes in India and other countries in Asia: as people get
   richer, they consume more animal-based protein, which means either
   meat or milk products.

   The upshot has been a boom in the prices of agricultural commodities,
   with dairy products rising as much as 60% since the start of this year
   and wheat at an 11-year high. Commodity prices take several months to
   feed through to farmers themselves, admits Sean Rickard, a lecturer at
   the Cranfield School of Management, but "if you combine biofuel
   production with growth in the Far East, there's every reason to
   believe that agricultural markets will be tight for quite some time."

   Of course, averages disguise as much as they reveal, and news of high
   food prices will be scant consolation to those farmers worst hit by
   flooding or foot-and-mouth. But even here there is a silver lining.
   "Income is only one measure of prosperity," says Mr Rickard. "You've
   got to consider asset wealth as well." Agricultural land prices are
   rising fast, and have risen by around 50% since 2003, thanks to
   confidence in the industry's future and to rich-but-disillusioned City
   slickers looking for a slice of rural idyll to retire to, or at least
   to spend their weekends in. Foreigners are taking an interest too,
   with farmers from other parts of Europe attracted by prices lower than
   those at home. For any British farmer thinking of selling up, now
   looks like a tempting time.


   Teenage gangs are deadly but surprisingly flimsy

   TEXTING someone else's girlfriend, gatecrashing a party, hailing the
   wrong person in the street: these innocuous offences are all said to
   have provided teenagers with motives for murder. Four fatal stabbings
   and one shooting shocked London this week, while in Manchester a
   19-year-old was jailed for blasting a youth in a trivial row. A
   recurring factor, besides senselessness, was gang membership.

                                               London Police Press Bureau
                                               London Police Press Bureau

                                 Martin Dinnegan: killed, and for nothing

   How many young people belong to gangs? When the Home Office last
   counted in 2004, it found that 6% of 10-to-19-year-olds belonged to a
   "delinquent youth group". Membership was highest among those aged 14
   and 15, of whom 12% were signed up. But most members were tame. The
   Home Office's understanding of delinquency includes smoking cannabis
   and "frightening people", which some teenagers do without trying.
   Fewer than a third of them were frequent offenders, and only one in
   eight had carried a knife. Gunmen numbered fewer than one in 100.

   Nonetheless, flares of sickening violence are making people wonder how
   prolific this mad, bad minority must be. Much teenage crime slips
   under the radar because victims under 16 are ignored by the British
   Crime Survey (BCS), the government's favoured index. But police
   figures unearthed by the Tories show that 29% of mugging victims last
   year were 11-to-16-year-olds. Some 40% of the alleged perpetrators
   were themselves under 16. And some say the BCS underestimates violent
   crime--by 45%, according to a report on June 26th from Civitas, a
   think-tank.

   Gangs are not the cause of this youth offending, argues Enver Solomon
   of King's College, London. "There's some evidence that young people
   will act with another when approaching someone to pinch their iPod.
   But it's usually in ones and twos, not packs," he says. And some child
   "robbers" are just old-fashioned bullies, he points out: the
   difference now is that they nick mobile phones, not sweets.

   Bullying may be as far as many young louts go. But gang membership
   exposes them to disproportionate risks. "In a gang of 30 you might
   have one or two who are particularly hard or a bit crazy, who might
   use firearms or do a series of robberies," says Robert Ralphs of
   Manchester University, who has interviewed gunmen as young as 14. Most
   members may only deal a little cannabis, but their association with
   the hard cases makes them targets for rival gangs looking to settle
   scores.

   The consequence is that even minor players get armed. Mum's kitchen is
   a good starting point. But even firearms are within reach. New
   handguns, smuggled from Europe by car or in the post, are scarce and
   cost up to £500 ($1,000). But once fired they are a liability that
   older gangsters gratefully offload to teenagers for as little as £50.
   Police seizures suggest that more than half the guns on the streets
   are converted (and dangerous) replicas, a fact to which many younger
   gangsters seem oblivious.

   Control of the lucrative drug trade once made the danger seem
   worthwhile. Bristol's worst gang violence erupted in 2003, when
   Jamaican newcomers clashed with British Afro-Caribbeans for control of
   the local crack-cocaine market. Inspector Dave Bradnock, who helped to
   put the kingpins behind bars, says the old gangs are less active now.
   The "Aggi crew", once key players, are out of prison but seem to have
   hung up their weapons.

   Good policing is one reason, but drug dealing has also become less
   appealing. The relentless spread of drugs means in most cities it is
   impossible for one gang to control supply. Average prices have fallen:
   ecstasy tablets, for example, now cost less than a third what they did
   a decade ago. Mr Ralphs says the impact on gangs is obvious. Walking
   around with older ex-gang members is "like being out with David
   Beckham. People stop to shake their hand." The current generation
   makes a sorry contrast. "They say they make £1,000 a week, but they
   have to put their money together to buy a £20 bag of weed."

   It is hard to imagine anyone choosing such a wretched life. In fact,
   it seems few choose it at all. The Home Office found that most gangs
   had no leader and only a third even had a name (Bristol's "Aggi" crew,
   sweetly, is named after its founders' initials). The only common
   feature, mentioned by nine gang members out of ten, was a regular
   territory or meeting place. If this is a gang's only durable
   characteristic, breaking it up ought to be as simple as providing
   somewhere better for young people to hang around.

   Understanding the makeup of gangs also counts. A report last month
   from the Metropolitan Police Authority described community anti-gang
   efforts as "almost exclusively focused" on Afro-Caribbeans. Yet of 171
   current London gangs, only half were predominantly black, it pointed
   out. Martin Dinnegan, the white 14-year-old stabbed to death on June
   26th, was not everyone's idea of a typical gang victim. If people can
   realise his case is not so unusual, there may be fewer like him.


   Things are looking up for Britain's largest refugee community


   GLOOM had descended on the Lodge Lane Somali Women's Group. The
   landlord was selling up and the small Liverpool charity did not have
   enough money to buy him out. Eviction was two weeks away. Then in
   walked Mariam Gulaid, the group's treasurer, with a bulging carrier
   bag. Inside was £14,100 in cash, raised in a whirlwind door-to-door
   collection from local Somalis--"all women," she adds proudly. They are
   now on the way to buying the building.

   Little is known of Britain's Somalis. Even counting them is hard: the
   2001 census came up with a total of 43,691, but surveys since then
   suggest a number nearer 100,000. A century-old trickle of economic
   migrants became a flood of refugees in the 1980s, increasing in the
   late 1990s as tens of thousands fled violence. Somalis are now
   Britain's largest refugee group.

   News tends to focus on the criminal exploits of their young men, who
   have acquired a fearsome reputation in some quarters. Reporters might
   learn more from the women: they are finding their feet, and helping
   friends and family find theirs.

   "The men always say that women change when they come to England," says
   Mrs Gulaid, who estimates that at least half the women who come
   through her door are single parents, either through death or,
   increasingly, divorce. For women, life in Britain means support from
   the state and, through this, independence from their husbands, she
   says.

   Somali men seem to have a bumpier transition. Three-quarters have been
   to secondary school and one in ten has a degree, but language
   difficulties and unrecognised qualifications make unemployment the
   norm. Jill Rutter, a migration researcher at the Institute for Public
   Policy Research, a think-tank, estimates that 65-70% are out of work.
   All-night sessions chewing qat also play their part (see [4]article).

   Down the road from Lodge Lane is the Merseyside Somali Community
   Association, a men's club. The brightly painted building is more a
   social venue than the action-oriented women's centre, which means that
   some men sneak into the women's group for advice. Osman Mohamed, its
   chairman, says hysteria about terrorism and suspicion directed at
   groups of black youths have given Somali men a reputation they do not
   deserve.

   It is hard to sort fact from fiction, as crime figures are broken down
   only by broad racial categories. Somalis have made the news for a few
   ruthless crimes, including the murder of Sharon Beshenivsky, a rookie
   police officer, in 2005. But police say these villains are
   unrepresentative. Paul Hurst, a police constable who has patrolled
   Toxteth's Somali neighbourhood for 21 years (and visited Somalia on a
   police bursary), reckons a hard core of about 30 Somali youths are
   active in car crime and low-level drug-dealing in the city.
   Nonetheless, crime in Somali "Tocky", as Toxteth is known, is lower
   than in neighbouring Picton and Wavertree, and light-touch policing
   has kept the peace. A repeat of the bloody Toxteth riots of 1981, when
   local Afro-Caribbeans clashed with police, is unthinkable, everyone
   agrees.

   The outlook for young Somalis is brightening. Lack of English among
   newly arrived refugees has prevented progress at school: a 1999 study
   of students in Camden, north London, found that just 3% got five good
   GCSE qualifications, compared with 48% of all students (and 21% of
   refugee children). But as the number of asylum seekers has plummeted,
   achievement has soared: in 2005 24% of Somalis in Camden got their
   five good passes.

   The fall in new arrivals has also damped down clan tensions, often
   blamed for causing fractures in the community. The Information Centre
   about Asylum and Refugees, a research body, counts at least 100 Somali
   organisations in London. Now, Liverpool's various bodies have overcome
   their differences to form an umbrella group, which is badgering the
   council for a joint community centre.

   Image remains crucial, especially to elders who fear their community
   is unfairly smeared by impostors. Economic migrants from all over east
   Africa (some of them ethnic Somalis) claim to be from Somalia to boost
   their chances of gaining asylum: a favourite pastime of British
   Somalis is spotting the fakes. Hussain Osman, on trial for trying to
   blow up a London station in July 2005, is considered one of Britain's
   highest-profile Somalia-born refugees. He may be nothing of the sort.
   Italian police say he is Hamdi Issac, and Ethiopian.


   Should the stricken bank or the stricken taxpayer be salvaged?

   LIKE a man in intensive care, Northern Rock is hooked up to a
   life-supporting transfusion of taxpayers' cash. First extended by the
   Bank of England in mid-September, the loan was expected to stabilise
   the stricken lender and allow it to make a quick recovery (or a
   graceful exit under someone else's name) once the turmoil in global
   credit markets had eased. Not a chance. Eight weeks later, Northern
   Rock's vital signs are deteriorating fast and its debt to the state is
   mounting.

   The government is thought to have put in up to £23 billion ($48
   billion), and the sum is growing by £2 billion-3 billion a week as
   depositors continue to flee. At least £10 billion of the bank's £24
   billion in retail savings has already been withdrawn, some say, and
   Northern Rock is having little luck persuading banks to lend it new
   money as its existing loans come due. State support for Northern Rock
   already exceeds Britain's transport budget and could soon surpass the
   £32 billion allocated to defence--a particular embarrassment for a
   government accused of under-equipping its soldiers in combat zones.

   But problems bigger than embarrassment loom. The authorities are
   desperate to regain their reputation as prudent custodian of the
   world's biggest international financial centre. The task is not helped
   by recurrent bouts of finger-pointing. In a radio interview on
   November 6th, Mervyn King, the governor of the Bank of England, seemed
   to blame Alistair Darling, the chancellor of the exchequer, for
   missing opportunities to avert the crisis.

   Three big questions now face the Treasury, which has taken the lead in
   sorting out the Northern Rock mess. The first is how to get taxpayers'
   money back, and quickly. Some believe that this would be most easily
   achieved by breaking up the bank and selling it off in bits. But this
   conflicts with a second, which is how to avoid destroying the bank and
   losing highly visible jobs in the north-east, one of England's poorer
   regions and, inconveniently, one filled with hitherto stalwart Labour
   voters. The third is whether either goal can be achieved without
   handing private-equity investors, in particular, a chance to make a
   bundle on the back of the government guarantee. Such an outcome would
   set the seal on the most ignominious episode in recent British
   banking.

   Saving jobs seems the likelier choice. Two of the three possible
   buyers to emerge so far are believed to want to keep Northern Rock's
   branch network. First in the field was J.C. Flowers, a private-equity
   group with a history of buying and turning around distressed banks.
   The firm has an impressive list of City grandees lined up to run the
   bank and (less illustriously) an ongoing court case in America that
   stems from its abandonment of an agreed deal to buy Sallie Mae, a
   government-guaranteed lender to students. Sir Richard Branson's Virgin
   Group, a second bidder, has a petite but innovative financial business
   and prudent plans to turn Northern Rock into a smaller, risk-averse
   mortgage bank. Cerberus, another private-equity firm, is keeping mum
   about its plans.

   None of the proposals sits well with the Treasury. All three groups
   are understood to have insisted the central bank promise to keep
   lending to Northern Rock, and at a rate lower than the penal one it is
   charging now. Some £25 billion-30 billion (including what the central
   bank has already put in) may be needed to keep the bank going, and
   none of the three is thought to have raised more than £15 billion.

   To break this logjam, Blackstone, a private-equity firm turned
   gamekeeper, was brought in on October 31st to advise Northern Rock
   under the Treasury's alert eye. Blackstone is thought to have
   contacted some 50 institutions, including French, Spanish, Indian and
   Chinese banks, to widen the pool of bidders.

   Blackstone is also approaching lenders to secure credit lines
   totalling some £25 billion, promising to improve Northern Rock's
   credit rating, if need be by cleaning up its balance sheet and selling
   less easily traded assets to specialist hedge funds. In theory this
   could allow the government to withdraw much of its support, but few
   believe it will get off lightly.

   At the punitive rate Northern Rock pays the Bank of England today, it
   cannot make a profit on any new mortgages and is losing money on many
   of its old ones. Its new lending is thought to have slumped to a few
   hundred million pounds a month, less than a quarter of the volume in
   the first half of the year. The longer it takes to reach a deal, the
   less there will be left to buy. A restructuring and sale may save
   Northern Rock from a lingering death, but any recovery is likely to be
   slow and painful.


   Telecommunications: The idea of sending information through the air in
   the form of flashes of light is being given a high-tech makeover

                                                                    Alamy

                                   Alamy

   WHEN most people switch on a desk lamp, they usually want a little
   extra illumination. But not John Goodey, an engineering student at
   Oxford University. When he flicks the switch and turns on his lamp, a
   sensor on his desk downloads music tracks digitally encoded within
   tiny flickers in the lamp's light. The music is then relayed through a
   pair of nearby speakers. This unusual set-up offers a glimpse of a
   future in which light, rather than radio waves, is used to send
   information. The concept, known as optical wireless or free-space
   optics (FSO), promises better security and higher data-transfer rates
   (up to 10 gigabits per second) than existing radio-based
   communications technologies, says Dominic O'Brien, a leading engineer
   in the field and Mr Goodey's research supervisor at Oxford.

   FSO is already used in a few niches: to connect networks in nearby
   offices without having to string cables between them, for example. But
   plans are afoot to extend the idea into a number of new areas. For
   example, the subtle flickering of car headlights and tail-lights could
   be used to transmit speed and braking information to other vehicles,
   to help prevent collisions. Traffic lights could alert cars when they
   are about to change, or broadcast the latest congestion update to
   waiting vehicles. In the home, FSO could be used together with
   interior lighting to provide extremely fast internet downloads. Since
   light does not travel through walls, there would be no need to worry
   about neighbours snooping on your e-mail, or piggybacking on your
   broadband connection.

   Futuristic though this sounds, FSO is by no means a new idea. Soldiers
   in ancient Greece used polished shields to send battle orders to each
   other over vast distances in the form of flashes of sunlight. More
   recently, so-called "heliographs" have been used to relay military
   signals in a similar way. And it is only in the past ten years that
   the British navy has phased out its use of Aldis lamps to convey Morse
   code signals from ship to ship. Yet just as this old analogue
   technology was being retired, its new digital counterpart was making
   its debut. In the past few years a small number of companies, such as
   Terabeam, LightPointe and Cablefree Solutions, began offering
   businesses point-to-point optical systems that could send data between
   buildings.

   These early optical systems were capable of sending information at a
   rate of hundreds of megabits per second (Mbps), but customers usually
   wanted only about 10Mbps, says Stephen Patrick of Cablefree. Back then
   the attraction was not speed but convenience, he says. Advocates of
   FSO like to say it has the speed of a fibre-optic link, and the
   convenience of a wireless link. It is easy to set up: simply hook up
   infra-red laser transceivers on top of two buildings and then align
   them. "The cost to install is very low," says Mr Patrick.

   There is no messing about with radio-spectrum licences or digging up
   roads, and FSO can also bypass prohibitive planning restrictions. In
   places where transmitters are not allowed on roofs, for example,
   indoor FSO transceivers can simply send and receive data through
   closed windows. FSO is also secure: the only way to intercept the
   signal is physically to intercept the beam.

   As a result, hundreds of businesses, hospitals and universities are
   already using FSO. City skylines are not criss-crossed with grids of
   laser beams because it is all done using invisible infra-red light,
   says Mr O'Brien. Today's technology can transmit data up to 4km (2.5
   miles) at speeds of 1-3 gigabits per second (Gbps).

   Telecoms operators are starting to take an interest in the technology
   as an alternative to the microwave-radio "backhaul" links that are
   used to link mobile-phone base-stations to operators' core networks.
   FSO's main drawback is that bad weather, such as rain or fog, can
   interrupt the signal. But Mr Patrick notes that microwave links are
   also prone to atmospheric interference. Provided FSO is set up over
   relatively short distances--say several hundred metres--it is a
   reliable technology, he says.

   There is no need to worry about bad weather when using FSO indoors, of
   course. But maintaining a line of sight can be a problem for a laptop
   that is being carried around within a home or office. One solution is
   to use a diffuse light source rather than a laser beam, says Mr
   O'Brien. Using the natural reflectivity of ceilings and walls, a
   transmitted infra-red signal can be received by any number of
   receivers within a room. But this approach reduces the pace at which
   information can be transferred. "Most of the light doesn't go where
   you want it to," says Mr O'Brien. Nor is it possible simply to crank
   up the power of the source beam, because infra-red light at high
   intensity can cause eye damage.

   So Mr O'Brien has been working on a ceiling-based system that tracks
   where a receiving device is, and then sends it a signal using several
   laser beams from a directional transmitter. He has built a prototype
   that runs at 300Mbps, nearly six times faster than today's typical
   Wi-Fi links and reckons that speeds of up to 10 Gbps are feasible.
   That is not to say that Wi-Fi is obsolete. Instead, the two
   technologies may end up being used together: Wi-Fi as the uplink, and
   FSO for the much faster downlink.

   The long-term hope is to transmit data using visible light emitted by
   indoor lighting. In Japan the Visible Light Communications Consortium,
   made up of industrial giants such as Sony, Toshiba and NEC, is
   pursuing just that goal. FSO is not possible with existing indoor
   lighting because incandescent bulbs cannot switch on and off fast
   enough. But that is not a problem for white light-emitting diodes
   (LEDs), which are expected to become far more widespread in the coming
   years, because they use less energy and are more versatile than
   incandescent bulbs. The combination of LEDs and FSOcould then be used
   to provide internet coverage throughout a home or office. Could it be
   lights out for radio networking?


   Transport: After a long gestation, ground-effect vehicles that fly on
   cushions of air could finally be ready for take-off

   WALK along the River Warnow, in northern Germany, and you may be lucky
   enough to spot a SeaFalcon, a sleek, white machine with two
   propellers, two wings and a distinctly un-birdlike tail. It looks like
   an aircraft. Which is what it is. Except, it isn't. It is a ship--at
   least in the eyes of the International Marine Organisation, which
   regulates such things. That matters, because ships are much more
   lightly regulated than aircraft.

   The SeaFalcon is really a ground-effect vehicle. It flies only over
   water and only two metres above that water. This means the air beneath
   its wings is compressed, giving it additional lift. In effect, it is
   floating on a cushion of air. That makes it far cheaper to run than a
   plane of equivalent size, while the fact that it is flying means it is
   far faster--at 80-100 knots--than a ship of any size. Its designer,
   Dieter Puls, thus hopes it will fill a niche for the rapid transport
   of people and light goods in parts of the world where land and sea
   exist in similar proportions.

   The theory of ground-effect vehicles goes back to the 1920s, when Carl
   Wieselsberger, a German physicist, described how the ground effect
   works. There was then a period of silence, followed by a false start.
   In the 1960s the Soviet armed forces thought that ground-effect
   vehicles would be ideal for shifting heavy kit around places like the
   Black Sea. Their prototypes did fly, but were never deployed in
   earnest--and their jet engines consumed huge amounts of fuel.

   This did, however, prove that the idea worked. And two German
   engineers, Mr Puls and Hanno Fischer (whose version is called Airfish
   8), have taken it up and made it work by using modern, composite
   materials for the airframes, and propellers rather than jets for
   propulsion. One reason the Soviet design was so thirsty is that the
   power needed to lift a ground-effect vehicle is far greater than that
   needed to sustain it in level flight. The Soviet design used heavy jet
   engines to deliver the power needed for take-off. But the SeaFalcon
   uses a hydrofoil to lift itself out of the water, and Airfish 8 uses
   what Mr Fischer calls a hoverwing--a system of pipes that takes air
   which has passed through the propeller and blasts it out under the
   craft during take-off.

   The next stage, of course, is to begin production in earnest--and that
   seems to be about to happen. Mr Puls says he has signed a deal with an
   Indonesian firm for an initial order of ten, while both he and Mr
   Fischer are in discussions with Wigetworks, a Singaporean company,
   with a view to starting production next year. South-East Asia, with
   its plethora of islands and high rate of economic growth is just the
   sort of place where ground-effect vehicles should do well.

   All of which sounds optimistic. But a note of caution is needed. For
   another sort of ground-effect vehicle was also expected to do well and
   ended up going nowhere. The hovercraft differed from the vehicles
   designed by Messrs Puls and Fischer in that it relied on creating its
   own cushion of air, rather than having one provided naturally. That
   meant it could go on land as well as sea--which was thought at the
   time (the 1950s) to be a winning combination. Sadly, it was not.
   Hovercraft have almost disappeared. But then, in the eyes of the
   regulators, they counted as aircraft.



   Toffs and spivs are quarrelling over the sport of kings

   FEW British institutions have proved as steadfast as racing, the sport
   of kings. Whereas the Royal Navy stopped handing out rum rations in
   1970, and the younger royals have moved away from family values and
   good taste, racing still clings to its oldest traditions.

   At Royal Ascot, Britain's most famous race meeting, men entering the
   royal enclosure wear full morning dress and ladies cover their
   shoulders and midriffs. Kate Fox, a social anthropologist, calls
   racing the "last bastion of old-fashioned chivalry", where women are
   treated with courtesy and even sozzled crowds have "exceptionally good
   manners".

   Away from the track, however, the relationship between the toffs who
   run racing and the bookmakers who pay its bills has taken a turn for
   the worse. They are at each others' throats over the question of how
   much bookies should pay to keep the horses in oats. Negotiations broke
   down late last year, forcing them to ask the government to decide,
   something that happens from time to time. This year the talks have
   become uncommonly uncivil because of a new twist: half the country's
   racecourses (including some of its biggest) have backed a new
   television service, Turf TV, set up to compete with the existing one
   owned by bookmakers. Its footage of lather-necked horses racing
   towards the finish line may cost bookmakers £50m a year more.

   Wrangling between the toffs and spivs dates back to at least the
   1930s, when gamblers first started to subsidise the track. Racing has
   always been unprofitable for most of its participants, not least
   owners and trainers, who are mainly in it for love, not money. Because
   the betting industry relies on the sport for its profits, the
   government has long forced bookies to cough up to subsidise racetracks
   and the racehorse owners.

   At first it did so by allowing bookies to take bets only at the track,
   where they were charged an entrance fee five times higher than the
   public one. And since 1961, when gambling away from the course was
   legalised, it has forced betting shops to pay a levy which currently
   stands at about a tenth of their gross profits from horseracing. This
   now yields a bit less than £100m a year, according to Deloitte, an
   accounting firm--or almost a quarter of racing's total revenues and
   most of its prize money. Even so, horse owners recoup less than a
   quarter of their operating costs, far less than in France, Japan and
   America, reckons Wray Vamplew, of Stirling University. About a tenth
   of British owners and trainers drop out of the sport each year.

   The current squabble is one in a series but it signals the possibility
   of far-reaching change. The government has long wanted to get rid of
   the levy, fretting that, were the matter taken to court, the transfer
   could be deemed illegal state aid. So spivs and toffs have been
   encouraged to find a commercial arrangement that doesn't involve state
   mediation. Letting racecourses charge for their own television feeds
   is not without problems: it introduces uncertainty and less popular
   racecourses may fail. Yet allowing the market to decide the sport's
   worth is a punt racecourses may have to take.




   Why the Liberal Democrats are the party of the future


   LIKE a big (but not that big) group of hostages, oscillating between
   hope of escape and fear, the mood of the Liberal Democrats at their
   conference in Brighton this week swung between gloom and elation. They
   were gloomy about their depressed poll ratings, and the erratic ones
   of their leader, Sir Menzies Campbell; they were intermittently elated
   by the glorious future predicted by their ideologues. "The tide of
   history is on our side!" they exhorted, and "The old politics are
   dead!" A lot of mean things can be and have been said about
   gentlemanly Sir Menzies and his party; but Bagehot proposes to pass
   over his lame jokes and calculating would-be heirs, the eccentric
   speeches and the sandals. Because the key thing about the Lib Dems is
   that they are almost certainly right. In two important ways, the tide
   of history and the evolving nature of politics are on their side--sort
   of.

   One of the mini-controversies of the conference was over Sir Menzies's
   avowed enthusiasm for "hammering" the rich. Both the enthusiasm and
   the controversy arise from the heterogeneous nature of Liberal
   Democrat voters: they are a tense alliance of disillusioned lefties
   and well-meaning patricians, genuine liberals and holders of ancestral
   grudges against the other two parties. To keep this ragtag coalition
   together, the Lib Dems need to "narrowcast"--for example, by
   signalling a more redistributive attitude to taxation to voters in the
   Midlands without frightening the horsey types in southern marginals.

   Narrowcasting is a tough trick, as David Cameron and his Conservative
   Party also learned recently, when they tried to allay misgivings among
   the Tory ultras without compromising their cuddly new centrist image.
   But it is increasingly a trick that all the main parties have to pull
   off--because the old politics are dying, as the Lib Dem ideologues
   insist.

   This realignment may be a less dramatic shift than the decline of the
   Liberals after the first world war, but it is happening. The
   traditional politics of left and right, at least defined in terms of
   class and economics, is obsolescent. For the time being, familiar
   issues such as health and education are still salient. Tribal party
   loyalties, based on old class identities, still obtain: there are
   millions of Britons, in ex-industrial northern towns and patriotic
   suburbs, for whom voting for anyone other than Labour or the Tories is
   more or less unthinkable. But, like religious identities, those bonds
   are weakening, as the economy that created them is transformed. New
   political axes will come to rival, if not entirely replace, the old
   economic one: liberty versus security, say, or liberty versus
   environmentalism. The result will be that, even more than Tony Blair
   in pursuit of his 1997 landslide, parties will need to yoke together
   disparate coalitions of dissimilar voters in order to win elections.

   Dream on

   The second way in which the future of politics will look Liberal
   Democrat is how parties go about the yoking. Beneath the headlines
   about hammering--and beyond the mini-scandal of Sir Menzies's
   ill-advised photo-opportunity with an organic toilet--the Lib Dems,
   and especially the impressive triumvirate of Nick Clegg, David Laws
   and Chris Huhne, actually have quite a lot of sensible policies. They
   have authentically liberal and considered things to say about prisons
   and immigration; on using the courts rather than extra-judicial powers
   to punish terrorists; on the environment; and on educating
   disadvantaged children. But the sad truth is that, aside from their
   distinctive stance on Iraq, their popularity and their policies are
   only loosely related.

   That is largely for reasons peculiar to them. Voters tend to take
   seriously only pledges that are likely to be implemented, which
   excludes those made by the Lib Dems. Many votes for them are really
   protests against their opponents: their recent poll doldrums have
   reflected Mr Cameron's early bounce, and latterly Gordon Brown's, more
   than their own performance. In these circumstances, as the worldlier
   Lib Dems admit, having policies is really a sort of irrational
   exuberance, mainly required to remind voters that they exist.

   Quite apart from this third-party predicament, though, policy is a
   decreasingly important factor in politics generally--certainly
   compared with the genuinely ideological clashes of the 1980s. Part of
   the explanation for that trend is that Labour and the Tories now agree
   about so much, even if they conceal their similarity by
   narcissistically inflating small differences. Mr Brown's omnivorous
   pilfering of everyone else's best ideas is blurring the distinction
   more than ever (which hurts the Lib Dems, since this coalescence has
   made grumpy Labour and Tory voters readier to switch straight to the
   other big party). Part of it is the influence of digital media on how
   political opinions are formed. That has made having a charismatic and
   ideally photogenic leader vital (which is why some people have been
   beastly about Sir Menzies). Policy itself is becoming the aroma of
   politics, rather than its substance--as it already is for the Lib
   Dems.

   In one respect, however, the Liberal Democrats are and will remain
   unique. Not only do their policies not determine their popularity:
   their popularity will not determine their chances of wielding power.
   For that they need a hung parliament after the next election, whenever
   it is; and for a hung parliament they need Labour to do badly. Since
   the Conservatives are second in most of Labour's marginal seats, that
   in turn depends mostly on the Tories doing better, rather than on the
   Lib Dems' own results. Unfortunately for them, probably only a reform
   of the voting system will alter that basic dependency--because even if
   the intellectual shape of politics changes, the institutional shape,
   based on the two great party machines, ruthless and adaptable, is
   likely to stay the same. The Lib Dems may have seen the political
   future, but that does not mean they will inherit it.


   Gun crime is leaving the big cities for smaller towns


   BILLY COX, aged 15, in his parents' flat; Michael Dosunmu, aged 15, in
   his bedroom; James Smartt-Ford, aged 16, at the local ice-rink: the
   lethal shootings of three south-London teenagers in less than a
   fortnight have startled the public and sent politicians scrambling for
   new initiatives. Tony Blair announced on February 18th that gunmen as
   young as 17 could soon face the automatic five-year penalty for
   illegally owning a gun that is currently reserved for those over 21. A
   "gun summit" with police and local leaders was scheduled for February
   22nd. David Cameron, the Tory leader, said he wanted to make dads
   stick around as role models by giving marriage a tax break.

   Is gun crime getting better or worse? Both, depending on what you look
   at. The government can boast of a recent dip in firearm offences (down
   6% in England and Wales in the 12 months to April 2006), but only if
   it includes toy airguns; remove those and the number goes up a
   fraction. And although firearm homicides hit a seven-year low last
   year, injuries more than quadrupled in the same period.

   The clearest and steadiest trend in all this is where gun crime is
   taking place: as the chart shows, guns seem to be moving out of the
   biggest cities and into their surrounding towns. Historically,
   firearms have been strongly concentrated in just three of 43 police
   districts in England and Wales: London, Greater Manchester and the
   West Midlands (which includes Birmingham). In the year to April 2002,
   less than a third of gun offences took place anywhere else. Last year
   almost half did.

   Gun crime is piling up on big cities' doorsteps. Last year London's
   Metropolitan Police dealt with 10% fewer gun crimes per head than
   three years earlier, but four of their five neighbouring forces saw
   increases. In Essex, where gun offences almost doubled in that period,
   police attribute it to an upsurge in armed robberies of vans carrying
   cash in transit. Criminal gangs have been driven out of the capital by
   the Met, they say: "When you get on top of a problem like this you
   don't suppress it, you disperse it."

   Keith Bristow, head of firearms crime at the Association of Chief
   Police Officers, believes drug-dealers are being similarly displaced.
   In an interview with the Times on February 19th he said that crack
   cocaine-dealers, along with their guns, were being forced out of
   cities by tougher policing and vicious competition.

   Yet the overall reduction in gun crime in big cities hides a more
   stubborn problem. The teenagers shot dead in London this month were
   not bank robbers; one killing seems to have been rooted in a
   text-messaging row. In some dark corners, firearms are morphing from
   the tools of the criminal trade into the accessories of teenaged
   gangs, to whom crime (usually low-level drug-running) may be secondary
   to the desire for companionship and security.

   While the Met has driven out organised gun crime, it has found such
   "disrespect" killings tougher to deal with. The Flying Squad, which
   fights "professional" crime in the capital, reported in 2004 that half
   its cases involved firearms. By last year this had fallen to
   one-fifth. In contrast Trident and Trafalgar, the police units that
   deal with shootings such as this month's crop (exclusively among
   blacks, in Trident's case), have not seen their caseload diminish in
   the past four years.

   Most worryingly, those who suffer from gun crimes are getting younger.
   In 2003 16% of the victims in Trident cases were less than 20 years
   old. Last year the proportion was twice as high.


   Computing: They may be powerful, but computers could still be easier
   to use. Might new forms of interface help?

   IT HAS been called a revolution, and rightly so. Over the past 25
   years computers have become a feature of everyday life in rich
   countries and, increasingly, in poor ones too. Today's machines are
   fast--a typical desktop now has ten times the number-crunching power
   of the fastest machine on earth in 1983--and widespread, given that
   the world's 3 billion or so mobile phones are, in effect, pocket
   computers. But although computers have become cheaper, more capable
   and more commonplace, they have made much less progress when it comes
   to ease of use. Their potential remains tantalisingly out of reach for
   people who find their control systems, or "user interfaces", too
   complex. And even people who have no difficulty navigating menus,
   dialogue boxes and so on, might use computers more productively if
   their interfaces were better.

   Consider the Nokia 6680 mobile phone, says Adam Greenfield, an expert
   in computing culture at New York University and the author of
   "Everyware", a book about the future of computing. He found that 13
   clicks were needed to change its ringtone. "It's an interface designed
   by engineers for engineers," he says. Steven Kyffin, a senior
   researcher at Philips, a consumer-electronics giant based in Eindhoven
   in the Netherlands, concedes that computer programmers and engineers,
   himself included, are often guilty of designing complicated systems
   packed with too many features. "We're compelled by complexity," Mr
   Kyffin says. "There's a point where humanity just can't handle it."
   Tellingly, the field of interface design even has an unwieldy name: it
   is known as "human-computer interaction", or HCI.

   Part of the problem is that programmers have traditionally had more
   power than designers. Programmers put in place the myriad features
   they want; interface designers then struggle to wrap them all up in a
   product that is simple to use. The results, all too often, are clunky
   interfaces. But the balance of power may now be shifting to the
   designers. Ken Wood, deputy director of Microsoft's research
   laboratory in Cambridge, England, says his company is putting greater
   emphasis on interface design. Three years ago, he says, none of his
   lab's budget was earmarked for pure HCI research. Today, a quarter of
   the lab's budget goes on it.

   Making computers simpler to operate would help the people who use them
   and the companies that produce them. Ease of use is one area where
   technology firms can differentiate themselves and gain competitive
   advantage. Just look at Apple, which is able to charge a premium for
   its products thanks to their elegance and simplicity. Its Macintosh
   computer, launched in 1984, helped to popularise the window, menu and
   mouse-based graphical interface--a huge step forward from the system
   of cryptic typed commands it replaced. Graphical interfaces became
   common in the 1990s, but there has been very little progress since.

   What comes next? In March this year Microsoft assembled a group of HCI
   experts to discuss this question at a conference near Seville called
   HCI 2020. Andrew Herbert, managing director of Microsoft's Cambridge
   laboratory, told attendees that interface simplification is vital if
   the computing world is to be opened up to new consumers such as the
   elderly, children and people with little computer experience.
   Microsoft says new features in its Windows Vista operating system,
   such as 3-D graphics intended to make navigation easier, demonstrate
   its commitment to greater ease of use.

   The view from Hollywood

   But tweaking an existing window-based interface is hardly a radical
   step. For a more dramatic vision of what may be to come, look no
   further than "Minority Report" (2002), Steven Spielberg's futuristic
   thriller starring Tom Cruise. Set in the year 2054, it depicts people
   operating computers using hand gestures detected by sensors.
   Gesture-based computing might sound odd--do you really want to dismiss
   a document on your computer by airily waving it away?--but computer
   mice were derided in 1983.

   Today's gesture-based systems take many forms. iO, a company based in
   Treviso, Italy, sells the Sensitive Wall, a large screen for banks and
   showrooms that senses movement within a metre or so. Passers-by can
   wave their hands to flip the pages of a virtual brochure through a
   shop window, or view promotional images from different angles. "The
   idea is to have the digital world melt into the physical world," says
   iO's Daniele Modesto.

                                                         Perceptive Pixel

                              Perceptive Pixel

   The "multi-touch" interface devised by Jeff Han, a researcher at New
   York University's Courant Institute, is more elaborate. It is based on
   a large touch screen (pictured) that can sense more than one touch at
   a time. This makes possible two-handed gestures such as selecting an
   area of an image, rotating it or zooming in and out. He believes this
   sort of approach will have far wider appeal than today's windows and
   mouse-based systems, and he has founded a start-up, called Perceptive
   Pixel, to commercialise the technology.

   Another version of a multi-touch screen, developed at Microsoft, shows
   how the technology could be integrated into a home, office or shop, in
   the form of a table. The Microsoft Surface, a horizontal touch-screen
   computer with neither keyboard nor mouse, will go on sale in November.
   Its gesture-based interface allows images and documents to be
   manipulated; the table-like computer also recognises other devices
   (such as digital cameras or mobile phones) when they are placed on top
   of it, and can download images from them automatically.

   Touch screens make computing feasible in new places, especially public
   ones, by doing away with keyboards, which can get gummed up with grime
   or spilled drinks. iSuppli, a market-research company based in El
   Segundo, California, estimates that the wholesale touch-screen market
   will expand by 17% this year to reach $2.8 billion. The incorporation
   of touch screens into portable devices is one driver of this growth.
   Apple's iPhone, launched in June, is a mobile phone with a
   gesture-sensitive multi-touch screen. Objects can be moved on the
   screen by dragging them with a finger, made bigger or smaller by
   spreading or pinching them with two fingers, and discarded with a
   flick off the screen's edge. Touch screens have particular appeal in
   portable devices because virtual buttons and other controls appear on
   screen only when required. The lack of a physical keyboard leaves more
   room for a bigger screen.

   Another alternative to the mouse as a pointing device is to use a
   gaze-tracking camera, which works out where you are looking and moves
   an on-screen pointer accordingly. A foot-pedal or keyboard switch then
   replaces the click of a mouse button. So far such systems appeal
   chiefly to disabled people who cannot use a conventional mouse.
   Antonio Tessitore of Villa Literno, Italy, had to give up his job
   after developing a degenerative muscular disease. Last year he began a
   new full-time job at a charitable association, using a gaze-tracking
   system that, he says, allows him to operate a computer with "no
   limitations". Manu Kumar, a researcher at Stanford University in
   California, is developing a gaze-tracking system called GUIDe aimed at
   a broader market: people who share documents. It works out which parts
   of documents people pay the most attention to, and highlights them
   accordingly. Other HCI researchers are using microphones, webcams and
   other sensors to try to work out what people are doing.

   But making computers simpler to use will require more than novel input
   devices. Smarter software is needed, too. For example, much effort is
   going into the development of "context aware" systems that hide
   unnecessary clutter and present options that are most likely to be
   relevant, depending on what the user is doing.

   Giving you what you want

   The trick, says Patrick Brezillon of University Paris VI, is to get
   computers to "size up the temperament of users" and then give them
   what they want. This can be done by analysing the frequency of
   keystrokes, the number of typos, the length of work breaks,
   internet-search terms and background noise, among other things.

   All sorts of things can be done with this information: playing
   soothing music for agitated users, proposing a break if the number of
   errors goes up, or suppressing notification of incoming e-mails to
   avoid breaking someone's concentration. Albrecht Schmidt, an HCI
   expert at the Bonn laboratory of the Fraunhofer Institute, one of
   Europe's largest research organisations, says a mobile phone could
   even change its behaviour depending on its location. One of his
   prototype systems shuffles the queue of voice-mail messages to give
   priority to messages from friends when the phone is out of the office.

   The problem with all of this is that people may not want computers to
   make assumptions about their needs and preferences--not least because
   those assumptions may be wrong. But proponents of context-aware
   computing say it is merely the next logical step from existing systems
   such as spam filters. The next generation of e-mail filters, say HCI
   researchers, will be "gradation" filters that delay notification or
   delivery of certain e-mails to avoid bothering the recipient.

                                                     Ronald Grant Archive
                                                     Ronald Grant Archive

                                           They said mice were silly, too

   Henry Holtzman, a researcher at the Massachusetts Institute of
   Technology, says vehicles provide the most promising environment for
   context-aware interfaces. Since the position of the driver is fixed,
   cars can be fitted with sensing equipment that would be obtrusive in
   other contexts. Stopping mobile phones from ringing in heavy rain, or
   during a sharp turn, he suggests, might prevent accidents. But, he
   adds, if such decision-making by computers is to be accepted, people
   must be convinced to trust it.

   That could be difficult. Anind Dey, a researcher at Carnegie Mellon
   University's HCI Institute in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, is designing a
   vehicle-navigation system that tailors driving directions for
   individual drivers. Cars fitted with sensors and cameras collect data
   on the driving styles of test participants, including their
   acceleration and braking patterns, assertiveness in changing lanes,
   and so on. The navigation computer then picks a route that
   accommodates each driver's strengths and weaknesses. The system works
   fine--but when drivers are told what is happening, they get angry.
   This suggests, says Mr Dey, that contextual computing needs to be
   discreet: such systems are, in effect, judging people and trying to
   influence their behaviour. Systems that manipulate people, he says,
   may have to keep quiet about it to work.

   Many futurists and computer experts believe that the logical
   conclusion of all of these new input devices, sensors and smarter
   software to anticipate users' needs, will be for computing to blend
   into the background. In this "ubiquitous computing" model, computers
   will no longer be things people use explicitly, any more than they
   "use" electricity when turning on a light or a radio. Mr Greenfield
   says a digital "dream world" that provides "one seamless experience of
   being immersed in information" hinges on one big if: computers and
   their interfaces must become so good that, like electricity, they
   rarely require concentrated attention. The trouble with computers in
   their current form is that they are still all too conspicuous.


   Computing: The German Democratic Republic bequeathed a 600m-piece
   puzzle to the reunified country. It is about to be solved using
   software

                                                               Fraunhofer
                                                               Fraunhofer

                                                     Look, an edge piece!

   WHEN the shredding machines failed and the mob was at the gates, the
   spooks at East Germany's State Security Service, better known as the
   Stasi, tried turning their files into mush by dunking them in water.
   But the number of bathtubs in their headquarters in Normannenstrasse
   was as unequal to the task as the machines had been. In the end, they
   resorted to tearing each page up by hand. The fact that many of the
   resulting shreds are only a few millimetres across is testament to
   just how much the soon-to-be-ex-members of the intelligence service
   did not want their work to fall into the public domain.

   If Bertram Nickolay of the Fraunhofer Institute for Production Systems
   and Design Technology, in Berlin, has his way, however, the public
   domain is exactly where they will soon end up. Using the institute's
   expertise in pattern-matching technology, he and his colleagues are
   about to embark on one of the biggest jigsaw puzzles of all time--or,
   rather, 45m of them. For that is the number of pages which the 600m
   fragments of paper, stored in more than 16,000 bags that were
   recovered from Normannenstrasse, are thought to represent.

   At first glance the task of joining that many shreds looks impossible,
   even when each shred has been scanned so that the matching can be done
   by machine. The secret, as with any computing task, is to break the
   problem into smaller, more manageable chunks. The first stage of this
   breakdown was done, unwittingly, by the Stasi themselves. Since they
   were in a hurry, the shredders tended to stuff all the bits of a given
   document into a single bag. That greatly simplifies the problem, so
   that rather than being nearly impossible it becomes merely unwieldy.

   The next stage is to group the shreds from a single bag according to
   various criteria. These include the colour and texture of the paper
   each shred is made from, whether that paper is lined or not, the
   colour of the ink used, whether that ink represents a picture, a piece
   of typewritten text or a piece of handwriting, and--if it is
   handwriting--what style.

   Only when a group of related shreds has been found using these
   criteria does the actual puzzling begin. That is done the way human
   puzzlers do it, by paying attention to shapes and sizes of the pieces,
   and the contours of their edges. If two shreds can be connected, they
   are regarded as one larger shred, and are thrown back into the heap of
   images to be analysed and compared with the others. Thus, as with a
   real jigsaw, areas get progressively filled in until the whole picture
   is finally complete.

   Like a human, the program that does the puzzling is capable of
   learning. It spawns slightly altered versions of itself that compete
   for computer time on the basis of their success at finding matches.
   The most successful are then mutated again, in a process similar to
   biological evolution. This is necessary because unlike a real jigsaw
   or a machine-shredded document, in which the pieces fit perfectly, the
   shreds of a torn document are slightly distorted and frayed at the
   edges. Deciding what matches what therefore requires judgment, which
   is notoriously difficult to program in advance. Indeed, if the program
   really cannot make up its mind whether two shreds match or not, it
   refers the matter to a human operator.

   Dr Nickolay is planning to process about 400 bags over the course of
   the next two years as a final test of the technology. If that works,
   it will just be a question of adding more scanners and computers to
   expose the truth about East Germany's dark past.


   History and personality have hamstrung Gordon Brown. But he is
   not--yet--as fated as John Major



   [3]Gordon Brown

   STUN the pig, hang it up by its trotters and slice it open. Decant
   some blood, pull out the organs and other unwanted bits, then squeeze
   them into a tube of scraped intestine.

   Sausages are indeed harder to swallow if you know how they are made.
   So, Bismarck famously observed, are laws. The same might be said of
   Gordon Brown's premiership--because, alas, it looks as if many of the
   unappetising things said about him before he became prime minister are
   true (and, as Mr Brown's luck would have it, they were said again in a
   documentary series starring his predecessor that began airing this
   week).

   It is true, or seems to be, that Mr Brown is maniacally ambitious but
   politically timid. He is intellectually curious but cripplingly
   indecisive. Witness the barrage of procrastinating policy reviews that
   he unleashes in every speech; unsurprisingly, more were set up this
   week, after the tragicomic loss of two doomsday discs by the revenue
   and customs service (HMRC). It is true, as the uncharitable gave
   warning, that Mr Brown copes badly with criticism--so badly, it turns
   out, that he sometimes shakes with pain and rage. He appoints
   supposedly independent ministers, then bullies them into line-toeing
   submission. He shies from blame when it is due and sucks up credit
   when it is not.

   Unfortunately, the gristle and the guts--the ugly secrets of the Brown
   abattoir--have been gruesomely displayed for all to see. During the
   non-election fiasco in October, the country witnessed the low
   political calculation and fake ecumenicism, the shallow bombast and
   obfuscation, the indecision and ultimately the cowardice. In the first
   days of the Northern Rock crisis, it saw--or rather didn't see--Mr
   Brown hide behind the sofa that he kept in Number 10 when Tony Blair
   left, just as he kept the uncollegial approach to government
   associated with it. Those who thought he could shuffle off his old
   skin when he realised his prime-ministerial dream, or at least that
   his psychological tics would not warp his tenure, seem to have been
   wrong. For Mr Brown, perhaps personality is destiny after all.

   Just as ineluctably, history seems to be his destiny too. Mr Brown's
   pitch was that, as prime minister, he would offer a change, not only
   from his own earlier incarnation but also from the previous decade of
   Labour rule. For a while the strategy was surprisingly successful; it
   has now comprehensively collapsed. The truly damaging thing about the
   HMRC fiasco is not that it undermines Mr Brown's claims to have
   governed competently since June. It is that, like the ongoing
   embarrassment over Northern Rock (which is partly to be blamed on the
   regulatory system Mr Brown designed), it has reminded the public of
   Labour's chequered record, and of Mr Brown's role in it. This is an
   old and flawed government, these debacles remind people--and the
   architect of some of those flaws is now leading it.

   So there is no escape from the past. Between them, it now seems to
   many, history and personality have scuppered Mr Brown's
   administration. He and Labour have accumulated too many mistakes and
   behaved too distastefully, some think, like John Major's cabinet in
   the mid-1990s (though it was the personality of Sir John's complacent
   party rather than his own that was the main problem then). Sooner or
   later--and probably as late as possible--Mr Brown will be spat out by
   a general election. But, runs the increasingly conventional wisdom,
   after this week, with voters' trust forfeited, the media derisive and
   whispering about his leadership under way, he is probably done for
   already.

   He may be. But there are three reasons to think otherwise.

   First, Mr Brown has not yet conclusively failed the first test of all
   prime ministers: the Hippocratic one. Northern Rock may prove
   financially catastrophic; the lost discs may yet result in
   inconveniences that upset voters irrevocably. But Mr Brown has not
   presided over any cast-iron disasters or lethal scandals. This was a
   dark week, but it was no Black Wednesday.

   Second, for all his faults and the virtues of David Cameron, the Tory
   leader, it is far too soon to conclude that the preference for Mr
   Cameron evident in recent opinion polls is fixed. The two men have yet
   to face off in anything resembling normal political circumstances,
   with no election furore or freakish mishaps. Mr Cameron is not yet the
   inevitable prime minister that Mr Blair seemed soon after he became
   Labour leader in 1994; compared with Sir John, Mr Brown has a big
   parliamentary majority and a relatively united party behind him. All
   that may change: Mr Cameron's poll lead may stabilise or widen,
   especially if the economic outlook and public finances deteriorate, as
   they seem likely to. But even then, Mr Brown could still turn out to
   be a good prime minister.

   Eat up, or no dessert

   Political leaders can be successful in two ways, which do not always
   go together and sometimes even contradict each other: they can win
   lots of elections, or they can leave their country better off, one way
   or another, than when they took charge of it. Mr Brown will have less
   fair circumstances and almost certainly less time than Mr Blair did to
   change Britain. But beneath the bluster and mishaps, he is showing at
   least an appetite for taking on some of the most intractable problems
   of social policy--such as the fact that too many pupils leave school
   with no qualifications, and that too many people expensively claim
   incapacity benefit. Probably he will fail to solve them, as Labour has
   done until now. But he is at least trying. He truly wants to spread
   opportunity more fairly (all those mute inglorious Himmelfarbs...). He
   is tentatively but admirably beginning to rebalance Britain's skewed
   constitution.

   Two months ago, when Mr Brown seemed able to turn flood waters into
   wine, it would have seemed absurd to be thinking in these terms. But
   now it is worth remembering: there may still be some wholesome meat
   left in Mr Brown's sausage.




   Britain's wayward yoof is an old problem, but a problem all the same

   ONE evening, when Bagehot was at university, a student who lived next
   door to him fell badly ill. An ambulance was called, but its route was
   blocked by a pile of clothes and a gaggle of drunk, naked young men.
   They were members of a drinking society (roughly analogous to American
   fraternities). The boozy nudity at precisely this spot, they
   explained, refusing to budge, was an awfully important initiation
   rite.

   This incident came to mind last month when something not dissimilar
   happened near Wigan, in northern England. A group of youths obstructed
   an ambulance and harassed the paramedics in it, whose patient died.
   That little act of thuggery was scarcely noticed amid the ongoing run
   of murders by British youngsters, by knife and sometimes gun. Most of
   the victims have been young too: 18 people aged 18 or under have been
   killed in London this year, stabbed on the street or shot in
   nightclubs--not many by Los Angeles standards, perhaps, but troubling
   by Britain's. Not all the victims have been teenagers: a father in
   Warrington was beaten to death outside his home last week after
   remonstrating with vandals. "No street is safe any more from marauding
   hooligans," lamented the Sun, which recently fulminated about the yobs
   who urinated in drinking-water supplies delivered to flood-stricken
   western England.

   Are British delinquents really more depraved, and more numerous, than
   they used to be, or than other countries' are? That university
   prank--as well as confirming that the posh and plebeian classes can be
   oddly alike--suggests that there is little new under the sun, even if
   the Sun says there is. Hysteria over degenerate children was even more
   intense in 1993, when two ten-year-olds murdered a toddler in
   Liverpool. From punks and skinheads, through the gangs that prowled
   the post-war London rubble and beyond, "yoof" has always been a
   concern, and always getting worse. "I would there were no age between
   sixteen and three-and-twenty," says a Shakespearean character, "for
   there is nothing in the between but getting wenches with child,
   wronging the ancientry, stealing, fighting." It is true that more
   teenage British wenches are got with child than other European ones,
   and that British teenagers are unusually prone to taking drugs,
   fighting, venereal disease and boozing: a senior policeman called this
   week for tighter rules on alcohol. But few who drink or smoke pot
   graduate to knife crime. Many do none of these things; most are
   better-off and better-educated than ever.

   Not much has changed--and don't generalise: those are the relaxed
   arguments of some sociologists, criminologists and other
   yoof-ologists. But an old problem still counts as a problem; that
   Britons have always worried about yoof doesn't mean they are wrong to
   do so now. And conversations with teachers, youth workers and yoof
   itself suggest that in some ways the plight and behaviour of teenagers
   have indeed deteriorated.

   Hard evidence is difficult to come by, but more British teenagers seem
   to be carrying knives, intended to protect but liable to endanger.
   More assaults than previously seem to be provoked by imagined
   "disrespect"; afterwards, a teenage omerta often confounds the police.
   Murder is still overwhelmingly a male offence, but girls seem to be
   committing more violent crime too. Urban gangs are pursuing rivalries
   and vendettas against groups from other neighbourhoods, separated by
   boundaries that are invisible to oblivious adults. "Happy-slapping",
   whereby assailants film their attacks for their later amusement, has
   been an unanticipated consequence of putting cameras on mobile phones.

   As in America, the worst problems are often concentrated in specific
   communities. But they have wider costs, because adults can't tell the
   sociopaths from the bored loiterers. British adults, research
   suggests, are less likely to intervene than other Europeans if they
   see youngsters up to no good, with the result that parks and squares
   are turned over to adolescent rule.

   Only relate, relatives

   Naturally, the -ologists have lots of explanations, and the government
   lots of remedies. Some see youthful misbehaviour as the cost of
   progress--for example, as a by-product of affluence, which in
   combination with inequality has produced a rump of poor and resentful
   children. Another mostly benign trend, in Britain as elsewhere, is the
   elongation of adolescence, as many youngsters spend longer in
   education, unmarried and at home; the dark corollary of that, for some
   of the stubbornly large number of British kids who leave school with
   few or no qualifications, and who no longer go straight into a factory
   or trade, is a risky limbo period before they settle down. Other
   explanations finger parents, for getting divorced more than they used
   to, for absconding or for working long hours, all of which Britons are
   unusually inclined to do.

   Yet it seems to Bagehot that there is something else peculiar to
   British families, at least among Europeans--an oddity that is
   especially salient at this time of year. Visitors to piazzas or plazas
   are likely to see several generations of continental families happily
   talking, eating and even dancing together. British children, by
   contrast, spend relatively little time with their parents, and not
   only because the parents aren't around: many see fraternising with
   them in public as a fate worse than a mobile phone without a camera.
   Meanwhile, as that senior policeman complained this week, many British
   parents, whether there are one or two of them, seem indifferent to
   their children's antics, or incurious about them. Since the clubs and
   churches that once thrust them together have withered, unrelated
   youngsters and older people don't talk much either.

   The British are an emotionally unforthcoming lot in general; perhaps
   this intergenerational chasm should be seen as just an extreme form of
   the privacy and reserve that mark many British relationships. But it
   is a dangerous one.


   The third party gets down to choosing its third leader in two years 

   THE race for the leadership of the Liberal Democrats, which began when
   Sir Menzies Campbell resigned in October, has not been gripping.
   Indeed, the impressive performance of Vincent Cable, their caretaker,
   has garnered as much attention, with polls suggesting that the party
   has gained more than the Tories from Labour's continuing travails.

                                                                       PA
                                                                       PA

                                      Huhne and Clegg: rivals and friends

   But the Lib Dems will prefer the uneventful showdown between Nick
   Clegg, their home-affairs spokesman, and Chris Huhne, who holds the
   environment brief, to the intrigue and scandal that marred their
   previous election in 2006. On November 21st ballot papers were sent
   out to the party's 64,000 members, who have until December 15th to
   vote. The result is expected two days later.

   Though Lib Dems downplay the ideological divide in their party, it
   remains a coalition of classical liberals (led by the MPs who penned
   the free-market Orange Book in 2004) and social democrats (more
   numerous among the base). Their name--a compound of the old Liberal
   Party and the short-lived Social Democratic Party--reflects this. And
   if Mr Clegg, an Orange Booker, belongs squarely in the former camp, Mr
   Huhne has slanted his pitch towards the latter. Their favourite
   historical figures are revealing: Mr Huhne admires Lloyd George, the
   chancellor he calls "the father of the British welfare state", while
   Mr Clegg prefers those who have stood against state power, such as
   Vaclav Havel, the Czech dissident, and Harry Willcock, a Liberal
   activist who campaigned against identity cards in the 1950s.

   Mr Huhne is a credible candidate. He forged successful careers outside
   politics, first as a journalist (including a spell at The Economist)
   and then in finance. His grasp of economics (he made his millions
   selling economic research in the City) is valuable to a party that has
   tripped up on the detail of spending pledges before. And he is a
   strong and knowledgeable champion of green taxes, a subject in which
   voters are taking an increasing interest.

   Yet he has failed to leave Mr Clegg in his dust: the two are
   level-pegging, with almost half of Lib Dem members undecided. Though
   Mr Huhne has the more technical mind, Mr Clegg's experience in home
   affairs gives him an advantage on the sorts of non-economic issues
   that are becoming increasingly prominent. His proposal of a managed
   amnesty for illegal immigrants is both radical and reasonable. He is a
   constructive critic of the government's record on civil liberties
   without losing sight of the threat that terrorists pose to national
   security. He has called for liberals to address the issue of cultural
   identity, arguing that multiculturalism cannot extend to tolerating
   intolerance or turning a blind eye to segregated communities.

   There are reasons to be cautious about both candidates. Mr Clegg has
   run a flat campaign, and was rattled when his rival attacked him. He
   is the more natural communicator, but comparisons with David Cameron,
   the Conservative leader, are not yet justified. His promise of a "new
   kind of politics" echoes similar pledges by politicians who went on to
   revert to partisan point-scoring, including Mr Cameron. Nor does Mr
   Huhne inspire total confidence. His support for massively shrinking
   Britain's nuclear deterrent seems rash, and he is also unduly alarmist
   about public-service reform.

   All in all, however, the Lib Dems are lucky in their candidates; and
   partly as a result, the party is picking up in the polls. They are
   luckier still in their acting leader. Mr Cable--who coined the single
   best line of Gordon Brown's premiership this week when he pointed out
   that the prime minister had metamorphosed from being Stalin to Mr
   Bean--is having a very good war.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e11br081;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world699;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=19372644?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/mediadirectory/listing.cfm?journalistID=59
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world699;ord=1;num=1?



   Gordon Brown has identified the quality he most needs to project. Can
   he do it?

   [3]Gordon Brown

   PATRICK STEWART, once of Star Trek, was a petrifying Macbeth, and Sir
   Ian McKellen a monumental King Lear. Ewan McGregor is a slimy Iago.
   There has been a lot of top-notch Shakespeare on the London stage
   recently--and quite a lot of him in political commentary.
   "Shakespearean"--usually combined with "tragedy"--is one of the
   adjectives sometimes applied to Gordon Brown's premiership, the office
   for which he waited so long, but which so quickly came to seem
   ill-starred. There is some competition from Cassius in "Julius Caesar"
   (who "thinks too much" and "seldom smiles"); but the flawed
   Shakespearean hero whom Mr Brown has most seemed to resemble is
   Hamlet, with his "craven scruple/ Of thinking too precisely on
   th'event". Chiefly but not only because of last autumn's non-election
   fiasco, Mr Brown has begun to appear perilously indecisive--and he
   knows it.

   It is plain that he knows it because countering that perception is Mr
   Brown's priority for 2008. Just as he tried, and for a while last
   summer managed, to quash the idea that he is uncollegial and tribal,
   the prime minister is striving now to project decisiveness at every
   turn and in every sentence. In one of the interviews he gave as part
   of his new-year fight-back, Mr Brown vowed to make "big
   decisions...the right decisions...difficult long-term
   decisions...long-term and difficult decisions...long-term
   decisions...big long-term decisions"--you get the picture. He dropped
   in "fiscal arithmetic" a few times for variety, but the headline
   message is clear: this is to be the "decisive year".

   His calculation is that the old-fashioned virtues of strength and
   judgment are still more important than beer-buddy likeability. In
   Britain at least (and maybe not only in Britain), that calculation may
   be correct. With his occasional Timon of Athens-esque grumps, Mr Brown
   is thrashed by David Cameron, the Tory leader, when pollsters ask
   voters about the two men's charisma. But their overall ratings are
   close, which suggests other factors weigh as heavily. And Mr Brown's
   bid to cast Mr Cameron as a flip-flopping flibbertigibbet--part flashy
   Mark Antony, part toffy Andrew Aguecheek--may ring true enough to
   hurt. Mid-way through an electoral term, an opposition leader can
   afford some creative ambiguity; even so, Mr Cameron's stance on some
   issues, such as the new European treaty or real-world solutions to the
   Northern Rock crisis, is vulnerably flimsy.

   So Mr Brown could be right that decisiveness is the quality he most
   needs to project. Unfortunately, claiming to be decisive and actually
   being so are not the same. Moreover, in politics some decisions count
   for much more than others.

   Feel the future in the instant

   To get anything done, leaders need to make decisions. But certain
   decisions have a telling demonstration effect beyond their actual
   content. Decisiveness on big issues, or in the teeth of opposition,
   makes a leader seem resolute, far-sighted and above the narrow world
   of party politics, as Margaret Thatcher showed; so, to a lesser
   extent, did Tony Blair. The most effective decisions are often taken
   after deep but private consultation--with no-men as well as
   time-servers--so they manage to look bold while still being carefully
   considered.

   On the other hand, wilfully unpopular decisions can make a leader
   appear deranged, like some of those taken by Lady Thatcher in her
   late, Coriolanus phase ("Alone I did it!"). Then there are
   prevaricating pseudo-decisions, like Mr Brown's establishment of
   umpteen policy reviews. These at first looked clever and circumspect,
   but have cumulatively come to seem, as Hamlet puts it, "one part
   wisdom" and "three parts coward". Decisions forced on leaders by
   events--like Mr Brown's hasty emulation of the Tories' ideas for
   cutting inheritance tax--make them look weak or confused.

   Is Mr Brown starting to make more impressive calls? The long-term,
   difficult (and so on) decisions that he is touting mostly involve the
   economy, and specifically the tough line the government has taken with
   some public-sector unions over pay. On January 8th the chancellor
   offered, or threatened, to conclude three-year pay deals with some of
   them. By dwelling on this stringency, Mr Brown hopes to guard against
   both inflation and the political fallout of an economic downturn;
   also, less sensibly (because it makes him look desperate), to contrast
   his own record with the inflationary but long-ago early 1990s.

   Unfortunately, public-sector pay restraint may be a little too arcane,
   and bust-ups with unions too familiar, to work as reputation-forming
   decisions. But the announcement on January 9th that the government is
   to encourage the building of nuclear-power stations is more electric:
   overdue, perhaps, but important and controversial (as well as right).
   To persuade voters that Mr Brown really is The Decider, he ought to
   follow that up with, for example, decisions to put Northern Rock out
   of its misery, to scrap ID cards (which almost no one would mourn) and
   to do something genuinely radical with the National Health Service.
   Maybe Stephen Carter, his new right-hand man at Number 10, will help:
   Mr Carter is reputedly the man to provide the grip and focus that Mr
   Brown lost when he gave his erstwhile top aides their own cabinet
   jobs.

   In a recent documentary, Mr Blair said something interesting about
   decision-making. To do the prime minister's job properly, he
   reflected, "you need to be able to separate yourself somewhat from the
   magnitude of the consequences of the decisions you are taking." That
   ability to dissociate may not be an entirely appealing trait, but it
   is probably a necessary one for leaders, and is a very necessary one
   for Mr Brown. He has made a start, but in his "decisive year" he needs
   to seem much less Hamletic and more like his fellow Scot, Macbeth--for
   whom "the very firstlings of my heart [were]/ The firstlings of my
   hand."


   A private rescue of the stricken bank looks ever more remote

                                                                   Landov

                                   Landov

   THE first rule of being in a hole is the simplest: stop digging. Yet
   it is the hardest to follow. Ever since the government decided in
   September to bail out Northern Rock, a British mortgage lender that
   had run out of ready cash, it has been delving ever deeper. A line of
   credit intended to tide the bank over for a few months ballooned so
   hugely that the Bank of England is now owed around £25 billion ($50
   billion). And, after guaranteeing deposits in order to stop the first
   bank run in Britain since 1866, Alistair Darling, the chancellor of
   the exchequer, has since been forced to guarantee more and more of its
   debts.

   On December 18th the government moved closer towards what is, in
   effect, the nationalisation of Northern Rock when it extended its
   guarantee to cover almost all the bank's wholesale debts. What this
   means is that the Treasury is now directly guaranteeing about a third
   of the mortgage lender's liabilities, which are a bit over £100
   billion. That is on top of the £25 billion loan from the Bank of
   England. In all, the government's commitment to the bank has now
   reached the stomach-churning figure of over £55 billion.

   The support for Northern Rock is far larger than any likely call on
   taxpayers' money, which would result from losses at the bank. But the
   question that matters is whether the government's strategy has become
   broken-backed. Mr Darling may hope that he is buying time until a
   private buyer can be found to take it off taxpayers' hands. But that
   hope is looking less and less realistic as money markets remain
   dislocated and fearful.

   Wishful thinking

   Indeed, the bank run that began in mid-September has not yet been
   halted. The haemorrhage of retail deposits has slowed. Between £5m and
   £10m is understood to be flowing out of customer accounts each day,
   compared with more than £200m on some days in November. However, the
   wholesale depositors and money-market participants on which Northern
   Rock relies for most of its funding have remained fickle. Without the
   new guarantee, billions of pounds might have been pulled out of the
   bank in the closing days of 2007.

   Attempts to sell Northern Rock are looking less and less feasible,
   since they require a hefty refinancing operation from banks that are
   in no mood to take on risky business. Although two bidders have
   emerged--Richard Branson's Virgin Group and Olivant, headed by Luqman
   Arnold who once ran Abbey National, a large British mortgage
   lender--neither has managed to borrow the £10 billion-15 billion they
   would need to start repaying the Bank of England's loan. Nor, it
   seems, have they come up with viable plans to repay the rest of the
   money before 2010. One proposal apparently rests on the astonishing
   assumption that Northern Rock would be able to win a 25% share of
   British retail deposits over the next three years.

   On December 14th the Treasury asked Goldman Sachs, an investment bank,
   to see if it could line up a group of banks willing to finance the
   stricken mortgage lender. Few hold out much faith that it can succeed
   where others have failed. Some of the leading investment bankers in
   London, from firms including Citigroup, Merrill Lynch and Blackstone,
   have done little else for the past three months.

   All hopes for a sale of Northern Rock now rest on two conditions, both
   of which seem unlikely. The first is a quick thawing in credit markets
   early in 2008 that would allow buyers to finance their bids. That
   looks optimistic, despite central-bank intervention to bring down
   elevated interbank interest rates.

   The second--that Northern Rock's shareholders agree to a deal that
   dilutes their stake in the bank--also looks improbable. SRM, a hedge
   fund, has recently increased its stake in Northern Rock to almost 10%
   and is understood to be keen to buy even more. It is calling for a
   shareholders' meeting (which may be announced early in 2008) and has
   also threatened to block any deal which it feels undervalues the bank.
   It knows well that the government can do little to coerce shareholders
   into accepting a sale of Northern Rock short of threatening to
   nationalise the bank or cutting off its funding, in which case it
   would go bust, an unattractive political choice.

   SRM's grandstanding strengthens the case for proposals by Mervyn King,
   the governor of the Bank of England, to remedy the absurd situation
   Britain finds itself in: it is the only country in the G7 without a
   special mechanism for dealing with distressed banks. In addition to a
   new system of deposit insurance, Mr King wants an agency that could
   take control of struggling lenders to protect deposits and then sell
   their assets.

   Such proposals suggest that the right lessons are now being learned
   from Northern Rock; they need to be introduced without delay. Yet the
   most pressing priority is to sort out the mess at the mortgage lender.
   The least undesirable way to deal with it may now be to take the bank
   into public ownership, in order to remove the veto of shareholders.
   That need not involve a long-term commitment, if buyers can be found
   for the bank's book. Mr Darling may still be striving to avoid
   nationalisation, but his quest looks ever more forlorn.


   Women's share of the prison population is creeping up


   CRIME is mostly men's work, and prison a man's world. But in Britain's
   heaving jails, the fastest-growing group is women. Male inmates have
   almost doubled in the past 30 years and females have nearly
   quadrupled. In 1970 one in 40 prisoners was a woman. Today it is one
   in 18.

   Before the steep rise came a long fall (see chart). Bar a couple of
   spikes during wartime (when male potential offenders were away
   fighting), women's share of jail places shrank steadily. That is
   partly because they were being locked up elsewhere. New reformatories
   for alcoholics and asylums for the feeble-minded catered mainly for
   women, "seeking to cure them, or where this proved impossible, to
   restrain them for so long as they were able to bear children,"
   according to Lucia Zedner of Oxford University. Psychiatrists began
   diagnosing women as mad, not bad, and female inmates became guinea
   pigs for new treatments outside the penal system.

   How different are today's inmates? "Women are imprisoned for much the
   same reasons as they were in the time of Elizabeth Fry," a
   19th-century prison reformer still pictured on £5 notes, says Juliet
   Lyon of the Prison Reform Trust, a campaigning organisation. Theft is
   still the most common offence, accounting for a third of the women put
   away. Addiction is still rife: 30% are inside for drugs offences, and
   58% are daily users. Debt and poverty continue to inspire crime.

   So do mental problems: eight out of ten female prisoners suffer from
   them, and they are twice as likely as men to be treated on arrival.
   But just as changes in mental-health policy helped to drive down the
   number of female prisoners at the start of the 20th century, they may
   now be driving them up. Places in mental hospitals have fallen from
   150,000 in 1950 to 30,000 now, as more patients are treated in the
   community. A side-effect is that those who go off the rails may go to
   jail instead of hospital.

   Female offenders, who tend to have committed only minor offences, have
   been hit again by a crackdown on nuisance crime. In 1992 those
   convicted of theft had a 2% chance of being sentenced to custody in
   the lower courts. By 2000 the odds were 14%. Tough regimes tend to go
   hand in hand with higher proportions of female inmates: in America,
   which imposes long sentences for mild crimes, women make up 9.1% of
   prisoners; in Germany, which has one-eighth as many prisoners per
   person, they make up 5.3%. France's jails, with fewer prisoners still,
   are only 3.6% female.

   A country's treatment of women therefore reflects its approach to
   offenders generally. But women raise extra concerns. Two-thirds of
   British women prisoners have children under 18, and 95% of them have
   to move house while their mother is banged up. And there are subtler
   cruelties: women are visited less than men, since their jails are
   fewer and farther between and their partners less conscientious. A
   third try to kill themselves each year.

   Their misery has swayed a sceptical public. Three-quarters believe
   that mothers should be spared jail unless they are violent, according
   to SmartJustice, a charity. Last year an official review suggested
   replacing women's jails with small, local units. The government
   endorsed much of the plan in December and is due to report back with
   firmer plans by April. The slow pace is maddening, says Ms Lyon, but
   the direction is right, if funding materialises.

   That still leaves the remaining 94% of prisoners--men--whose swelling
   ranks the government plans to hold in huge new "titan" jails. Many,
   like most women, are petty criminals spending just weeks inside and
   learning little. A century ago women were the guinea pigs for new
   thinking in penal reform. Could it happen again?


   The Treasury may be overdoing the crackdown

   FOR years, as chancellor of the exchequer, Gordon Brown dithered over
   what to do about rich foreigners living in Britain untaxed on their
   offshore wealth. Spurred by a Tory plan to clobber them, Alistair
   Darling, who now runs the Treasury, acted in October. His tax changes
   will bring in £650m ($1.3 billion) a year, far less than the
   Conservatives were hoping to raise. Even so they are arousing alarm,
   which a new consultation paper from the Treasury has done nothing to
   dispel.

   Some of the consternation is the usual bleating that arises when
   people have to pay more tax. But there is a genuine worry about damage
   to the economy. This risk is the main reason that the government has
   dragged its feet for so long over reform, as it has wrestled with a
   trade-off between tax equity and economic harm.

   Unlike other taxpayers, rich foreigners living in Britain can shelter
   their offshore wealth from tax. They do so by claiming "non-domiciled"
   status, asserting a longstanding connection with another country. This
   allows non-doms to avoid being taxed on overseas earnings and capital
   gains on assets held offshore, unless they remit income and gains to
   Britain. Their favoured status offends against a cardinal principle of
   tax equity: that taxpayers who have the same income (from wherever it
   is derived) should pay the same tax.

   On the other hand, as the Treasury paper lays out, non-doms, who
   include shipping tycoons and City high-fliers, pack an economic punch
   much weightier than their number, currently around 115,000. Their
   average earnings in Britain, on which they do pay tax, exceed
   £100,000. As a result, they contributed taxable income of £12 billion
   to the economy in 2005-06 and paid income tax worth £4 billion.

   The danger in imposing a draconian tax regime on non-doms is that many
   of them may pack their bags and go elsewhere. That could harm the
   economy and lead to a loss in domestic tax revenues. Aware of the
   risk, Mr Darling is sweetening the tax pill. From next April, non-doms
   will face an annual levy of £30,000 to retain their status. This will
   apply only to those who have been in Britain for more than seven out
   of the past ten years, however.

   The period of grace slashes the number likely to be affected, to
   around 20,000. Of these, the Treasury says that only 4,000 will find
   it worthwhile to pay the levy; 3,000 will leave Britain, and the rest
   will give up their non-dom status, so that they are taxed on their
   foreign income and capital gains like ordinary Brits.

   On the face of it this looks like a reasonable deal, and a more
   sensible approach than the Tory plan, under which all non-doms would
   pay a £25,000 levy in order to retain their tax status. The Treasury
   estimates that this plan would bring in an extra £300m a year but
   prompt a further 13,000 non-doms to flee the country. It would also
   deter new temporary foreign workers from coming to Britain.

   But what is jarring nerves is that the Treasury also appears to be
   cracking down on the offshore trusts where non-doms hold much of their
   wealth. As yet the details are unclear, but there are mounting worries
   about the direction of travel. "The fear is that Britain's tax regime
   is becoming unfriendlier and more intrusive for mobile foreigners,"
   says John Whiting, a tax partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers, an
   accountancy firm.

   The government is not wrong to tighten taxation of non-doms, but it
   needs to tread carefully. After leaving them alone, arguably for too
   long, it needs to temper their tax privileges cautiously. The economy
   needs to keep attracting footloose, smart, rich foreign workers in
   order to thrive.


   Doing less for Britain's allegedly unhappy children might be the best
   policy

   IT HAS been a bad year to be young in Britain. In February UNICEF
   concluded that Britain was the worst place for children in the
   industrialised world, ranking it lowest on all sorts of measures,
   including, heartrendingly, whether children felt their peers were
   "kind and helpful". A spate of shootings and stabbings of teenagers by
   teenagers marred the summer. The autumn saw researchers lining up to
   report that expensive education policies had had little or no benefit;
   earlier this month OECD figures showed Britain's schools outclassed by
   other countries'. Child obesity, teenage pregnancy and under-age
   drinking in Britain are all high by international standards, and some
   problems are getting worse. The number of children living in poverty,
   which had fallen every year since 1999, was shown to have increased by
   100,000 in 2005-06.

   So when Ed Balls, the schools secretary, stood up in Parliament on
   December 11th to announce measures to make Britain "the best place in
   the world for children to grow up", his chutzpah was impressive. The
   ten-year "Children's Plan" he outlined was less so. It is a sprawling
   hymn to government intervention in all aspects of children's lives.
   "Is it necessary for the Whitehall screwdriver to reach into every
   school in the country?" asked David Laws, the Liberal Democrats'
   education spokesman.

   The hyperactivity was inspired by a basic observation: that children
   often fail in school because of what is happening at home. An analysis
   published on December 13th by the Sutton Trust, an education charity,
   provides the latest evidence that gaps between rich and poor open up
   early. Among children born in 2000, the poor ones with a good
   vocabulary at age three had fallen back just two years later;
   meanwhile, rich but less verbally adept ones made up ground. If the
   trend continues, the researchers say, by the age of seven the paths of
   the two groups will have crossed.

   The solution offered in the children's plan is to get schools to do
   many of the things that a good parent would do. In future all schools
   are to stay open from 8am to 6pm in term-time, and offer a range of
   activities, from artistic to sporting. And other professionals are to
   operate from the schools: social workers, health visitors and even
   community police officers.

   Schools will also get their hands on children earlier. The entitlement
   to free nursery care is being extended from 12 to 15 hours for three-
   and four-year-olds and to 20,000 two-year-olds from the poorest
   families. An "early-years foundation-stage" framework--already
   nicknamed the "toddlers' curriculum"--is due to come into force next
   autumn. It sets out exactly what small children are expected to be
   able to do, from birth to age five, and child carers in both state-run
   and private nurseries will have to monitor progress against these
   standards. There are 69 early-learning goals and more than 500
   development milestones, including the instruction that under-ones
   should "play with their own fingers and toes" and one-year-olds should
   "become absorbed in putting objects in and out of containers".
   Three-year-olds must start learning to read and write--earlier than
   children in the rest of Europe, indeed in most of the world.

   But some fear that this attempt to help will in fact compound the
   problem. Opposition parties and parent-teacher associations attacked
   the expansion of government monitoring and measuring into the earliest
   years. A starry coalition of concerned professionals, including
   Penelope Leach, an expert on child care, and Dorothy Rowe, a
   psychologist, have launched a campaign against plans to make
   pre-school care more structured and academic in style. Far from
   helping British children catch up with their peers in other countries,
   the campaigners say, such a "head start" in literacy may cause
   emotional and behavioural problems later on. In fact, British children
   should start formal school later than they do now--which, at age four,
   is already younger than children in most other places.

   Some optimists note that the children's plan offers a few scraps of
   comfort to those who worry that British youngsters are being
   frogmarched through their childhood, with little time to stand and
   stare. Summer-born children, whose younger start puts them at a
   disadvantage right into secondary school, may be allowed to wait a
   little before starting school. Britain's rigid approach to grouping
   children by age, regardless of educational progress, may be relaxed a
   little. And if the results of a two-year pilot study are favourable,
   youngsters will no longer take the same tests together at the end of
   primary school, but will have tailored papers appropriate to their
   level whenever teachers deem them ready.

   The biggest worry, though, is that a plan that sets out to do
   everything for all children will end up doing nothing well. Removing
   the spotlight from schooling risks losing the focus necessary to
   improve the results of the groups that fall behind, says Alan Smithers
   of the University of Buckingham. He likens the plans for schools that
   run all aspects of children's and families' lives to the sort of
   corporate merger that sees cross-cutting synergies and holistic
   opportunities--but ends up destroying value. "I can imagine that in
   2020 an education minister will announce an exciting new sort of
   institution that concentrates exclusively on educating children, and
   makes a virtue of doing that one thing superlatively," he says.
   Perhaps they might be called schools.


   Energy: Researchers have developed an environmentally friendly light
   bulb that uses very little energy and should never need changing

                                                             Belle Mellor
                                                             Belle Mellor

   ALTHOUGH it symbolises a bright idea, the traditional incandescent
   light bulb is a dud. It wastes huge amounts of electricity, radiating
   95% of the energy it consumes as heat rather than light. Its life is
   also relatively short, culminating in a dull pop as its filament
   fractures. Now a team of researchers has devised a light bulb that is
   not only much more energy-efficient--it is also expected to last
   longer than the devices into which it is inserted. Moreover, the lamp
   could be used for rear-projection televisions as well as general
   illumination.

   The trick to a longer life, for light bulbs at least, is to ensure
   that the lamp has no electrodes. Although electrodes are undeniably
   convenient for plugging bulbs directly into the lighting system, they
   are also the main reason why lamps fail. The electrodes wear out. They
   can react chemically with the gas inside the light bulb, making it
   grow dimmer. They are also difficult to seal into the structure of the
   bulb, making the rupture of these seals another potential source of
   failure.

   Scientists working for Ceravision, a company based in Milton Keynes,
   in Britain, have designed a new form of lamp that eliminates the need
   for electrodes. Their device uses microwaves to transform electricity
   into light. It consists of a relatively small lump of aluminium oxide
   into which a hole has been bored. When the aluminium oxide is
   bombarded with microwaves generated from the same sort of device that
   powers a microwave oven, a concentrated electric field is created
   inside the void.

   If a cylindrical capsule containing a suitable gas is inserted into
   the hole, the atoms of the gas become ionised. As electrons accelerate
   in the electric field, they gain energy that they pass on to the atoms
   and molecules of the gas as they collide with them, creating a glowing
   plasma. The resulting light is bright, and the process is
   energy-efficient. Indeed, whereas traditional light bulbs emit just 5%
   of their energy as light, and fluorescent tubes about 15%, the
   Ceravision lamp has an efficiency greater than 50%.

   Because the lamp has no filament, the scientists who developed it
   think it will last for thousands of hours of use--in other words, for
   decades. Moreover, the light it generates comes from what is almost a
   single point, which means that the bulbs can be used in projectors and
   televisions. Because of this, the light is much more directional and
   the lamp could thus prove more efficient than bulbs that scatter light
   in all directions. Its long life would make the new light ideal for
   buildings in which the architecture makes changing light bulbs
   complicated and expensive. The lamps' small size makes them comparable
   to light-emitting diodes but the new lamp generates much brighter
   light than those semiconductor devices do. A single microwave
   generator can be used to power several lamps.

   Another environmental advantage of the new design is that it does not
   need mercury, a highly toxic metal found in most of the bulbs used
   today, including energy-saving fluorescent bulbs, fluorescent tubes
   and the high-pressure bulbs used in projectors. And Ceravision also
   reckons it should be cheap to make. With lighting accounting for some
   20% of electricity use worldwide, switching to a more efficient system
   could both save energy and reduce emissions of climate-changing
   greenhouse gases.


   Video games: New furniture, controllers and screens are helping to
   make video games even more immersive and realistic



   AUDRA MCIVER, a publicist, was attending the New York Toy Fair in
   February when she came across a display of gaming chairs--seats
   designed specifically for playing video games. She sat down to try
   one, and the experience proved to be so engrossing that she remained
   in the chair, glued to the screen and playing "Project Gotham Racing
   3", for several hours. Passers by began asking her for product
   details, thinking she worked for the chair's manufacturer, at which
   point she realised just how long she had been sitting in it. "That was
   a great chair--I just loved it," she recalls.

   Most gamers are quite happy to sit on a sofa or a beanbag when playing
   "Gears of War" or "Grand Theft Auto". But as other aspects of gaming
   become more realistic, from high-definition graphics to vibrating
   controllers, manufacturers sense an opportunity to offer dedicated
   gaming furniture, controllers designed for specific gaming genres and
   new types of fancy screens.

   The Raptor, for example, made by the Ultimate Game Chair company, has
   built-in speakers and features 12 motors that provide a full-body
   version of the vibration effects delivered through hand-held
   controllers. Pyramat's S5000 Sound Rocker is another chair with
   built-in speakers; it uses wireless technology to beam the audio
   signals from the console. The Nethrone goes further: it is an
   ergonomic seat in an adjustable chrome frame which doubles as a
   monitor stand. The whole thing looks like a machine for subjecting
   astronauts to high G-forces, but is meant to allow gamers to play
   while reclining in comfort.

   Fancy controllers are another way to increase the realism of certain
   games. Racing games found in arcades have steering wheels and pedals;
   wheels such as Logitech's NASCAR Racing Wheel can now be bought for
   use at home by those truly obsessed with driving simulators. The same
   is true of joysticks. The most advanced models, such as the
   ThrustMaster Top Gun Afterburner Force Feedback made by Guillemot, now
   resemble those found in fighter aircraft in their layout and
   complexity.

   The popularity of the "Guitar Hero" series of games, in which players
   must press coloured buttons in time with classic rock tracks, means
   that many televisions in gaming households now have small, plastic
   electric-guitar controllers propped up next to them. "Rock Band", a
   game in a similar vein that will be released later this year, will
   have bass-guitar and drum-kit controllers, too. Players may look
   ridiculous, but they would not enjoy such games nearly as much without
   these special controllers.

   A lot of innovation is also going on in the field of displays. PC
   gamers tend to sit right in front of their screens while gaming,
   whereas console gamers tend to sit a bit further away. Sitting close
   to a large display, be it a monitor or a widescreen television,
   provides a particularly immersive experience, because the game
   occupies almost all of the player's field of vision. Taking that a
   step further, Matrox, a Canadian firm that makes display cards for
   PCs, has devised "TripleHead2Go". This is a box that combines three
   separate monitors so that they behave like a single, very large, very
   wide monitor. In games with a first-person perspective, such as
   "Unreal" or "Half-Life 2", the monitors can then be arranged to mimic
   peripheral vision. And flight-simulator fans can simulate the view
   from an aircraft's cockpit windows.

   Mitsubishi, meanwhile, is adding a new feature called "Game FX" to its
   ultra-large DLP televisions (which measure up to 73 inches
   diagonally). This will double the usual frame-rate to enable two
   separate sets of images to be interleaved. Using special glasses,
   players can alternate between images for the right and left eyes, so
   that the television becomes a three-dimensional display, at least for
   games that support this feature.

   A different approach to immersion comes from Philips, which includes a
   technology called amBX in some of its televisions. Its main feature is
   "ambient lighting", in which lights behind and around the screen bathe
   the room with the same hues shown on screen. Also available are extra
   speakers, fans and vibration packs, all of which can be triggered when
   necessary by suitably programmed games. Several video-game publishers,
   including Codemasters, Gearbox Software and THQ, have agreed to
   support the technology.

   Where will it all end? Harvey Smith, a respected game designer who has
   worked on titles including "System Shock" and "Thief", says the most
   immersive experiences depend not on fancy technology, but on good
   design, and the ability to create a coherent and believable game
   world. Despite all the gadgets that are now available, he says,
   "nothing is as immersive as a good book."


   The shadow of an old accident haunts Britain's nuclear revival


   THIS is a big week in the government's attempt to rehabilitate nuclear
   energy. Eight months after a court ruled that its first public
   consultation on whether to build more reactors had been misleading and
   unfair, its second attempt finished on October 10th. For a government
   with (until recently) a reputation for slick public relations, that
   date looks ill-judged. For it also marks the 50th anniversary of a
   fire at the Windscale nuclear reactor in Cumbria that was, until Three
   Mile Island in 1979, the world's worst atomic accident (the Chernobyl
   explosion in 1986 dwarfs both).

   The fire broke out during a maintenance operation and burned for over
   40 hours before engineers realised what was happening. At its height,
   11 tonnes of uranium fuel was burning at temperatures of up to 1,300
   degrees Celsius. A plume of radioactive smoke drifted south towards
   London, and east over Norway and Belgium. The fire was put out by
   drenching the reactor's core with water, a risky operation that could
   have caused a hydrogen explosion. The prime minister, Harold
   Macmillan, ordered the disaster hushed up.

   Experts insist that a repeat of the Windscale accident is extremely
   unlikely. The heat build-up that sparked the fire was caused by poor
   knowledge of reactor physics, which are much better understood today.
   The reactor itself--designed to produce plutonium for Britain's
   bombs--was full of flammable material and built with few of the safety
   features that modern power stations are laden with. Simon Taylor, an
   economist at Cambridge University's business school, argues that
   Windscale was good for Britain's nuclear industry, since it focused
   minds on safety.

   Such reassurances cut little ice with the public. According to Ipsos
   MORI, a polling outfit, public support for nuclear energy has risen
   over the past six years (see chart). More Britons now support nuclear
   power than oppose it. But despite official arguments about nuclear
   power's low-carbon nature and potential contribution to more secure
   electricity supplies, the rise in its popularity has hardly been
   dramatic. Support peaked in 2005 and has fallen since then, except
   among MPs--many of whom will merely be toeing the line of a government
   keen to see new plants built.

   Experts and pressure groups have tended to worry more in recent years
   about the cost of building reactors and how to dispose of the waste
   they generate than about safety risks, says Mr Taylor. But the public
   has very different priorities. While 55% of respondents cited waste
   disposal as a problem with nuclear power, 48% worried about a
   radiation leak and 46% about a nuclear accident. Only 13% cared about
   the potential cost.

   Environmental groups have dismissed the government's new consultation,
   arguing that its aim is to sell a policy that has already been decided
   upon rather than genuinely to canvass voters' views. Yet greens may
   have little to fear. The polls reveal a striking and pervasive public
   distrust of official information about nuclear power. Only scientists
   employed by universities, a few television-news programmes and
   environmental groups are trusted to tell the truth. Government
   scientists and cabinet ministers are widely disbelieved. The most
   distrusted figure of all is Gordon Brown himself, although the polling
   was conducted before he became prime minister. Since official sources
   have so little credibility, any attempt to sell nuclear energy to the
   public may end up sharpening people's doubts.


   Why cities' plans for renewal often sound strangely familiar

   A STROLL through the centre of most British cities is much prettier
   now than it was a decade ago. Though output in the north has grown
   more slowly than elsewhere, its cities have beautified themselves:
   boules pistes and public sculpture liven up formerly deserted bits of
   Leeds; the seafront at Hull boasts a futuristic new aquarium. A year
   of civic jollification has just begun in Liverpool, named "European
   Capital of Culture 2008" and given a big dollop of European Union
   cash. This week Sheffield presented plans for a new high-tech "digital
   square mile", complete with suitably jazzy new buildings.

   The cranes on provincial skylines are encouraging. But followers of
   regeneration, as the business of boosting down-at-heel neighbourhoods
   is now known, might notice that many cities seem to be thinking alike.
   Sheffield's digital square mile will complement what neighbouring
   Leeds calls its own "digital cluster"; over the Pennines, Salford is
   beavering away on a "digital-industries hub". And though Liverpool is
   the official capital of culture, places such as Gateshead (where the
   huge Baltic flour mill is now an arts centre) and Wakefield (which is
   due to open a new Barbara Hepworth gallery in the winter of 2009) have
   similar hopes.

   Why do city councils have the same ideas about how to grow? One reason
   is that they have the same people advising them. Since Labour moved
   regeneration up the agenda in 1997, creating a spider's web of
   regional-development bodies and arming them with cash to dish out, a
   regeneration-consulting industry has sprung up. Regeneration &
   Renewal, a weekly trade magazine, lists scores of organisations happy
   to advise councils on how to bid for, and spend, the money. Following
   the advice of one such consultant, Sheffield now wants to club
   together with Leeds and Manchester to form a single "super-city". Last
   year the same outfit advised Glasgow and Edinburgh, which are engaged
   in a similar collaborative effort.

   If consultants can spread good ideas and not just recycle tired ones,
   so much the better. But the homogeneity of city-development strategies
   also owes much to the British government's enduring top-down approach
   to local government. In England a great deal of regeneration work is
   steered by nine Regional Development Agencies (RDAs), whose members
   are appointed by, and report to, central government. This has
   encouraged uniformity: "Once a minister identified a sector as
   important, it tended to trigger a herd mentality among RDAs," says
   Dermot Finch of the Centre for Cities, a think-tank. Following a
   minister's remarks about the brilliance of creative industries a few
   years ago, every regional agency began overstating the contribution of
   the creative sector to its economy. Other notable recent fads include
   biotechnology, financial services and exploiting the 2012 Olympics.

   But the RDAs are getting less herd-like, Mr Finch reckons, and local
   authorities are being given a bit more freedom. So far, cities have
   tended to follow the lead of regional agencies, partly because they
   hold important purse strings, but also because cities are inexpert at
   making their own assessment of the best way to grow. The Treasury has
   spotted this problem, and in July proposed that local authorities
   should be forced to spend more time examining the needs of their
   economies, in return for being given more say over how cash is spent.
   With luck, better-tailored, more varied strategies might emerge.
   Having long promoted regional agencies as the best means of
   regenerating deprived areas, it would be good if the government put
   some power back into the hands of the regeneratees themselves.


   A choice of migration policies 

   THOSE setting migration policy in rich countries face an almost
   impossible task. The demands of demography and economics--shrinking
   and ageing workforces, a growing shortage of people to fill jobs
   requiring both high and low skills, and increasingly flexible and open
   economies--all point to more migration. Moreover, within the European
   Union workers from the 12 countries that have joined in the past few
   years will soon have the legal right to live and work in any part of
   the union. On the other hand, voters in many rich countries seem
   increasingly hostile to immigration, which suggests that politicians
   may find it more and more difficult to allow immigration to continue
   at its current high level.

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

                      Work is here, but where is home?

   If only there were some means of getting all the benefits of migration
   but none of the costs. That is the thinking behind the latest solution
   now being promoted: circular migration. Europe's commissioner for
   justice and home affairs, Franco Frattini, wants to see more temporary
   migrants in the EU. For the highly skilled, he suggests a blue card
   (similar to America's green one) to ease the temporary entry of
   professionals and their families into Europe. Foreign workers with the
   most skills make up just 1.7% of the workforce, about half the rate in
   America and far less than in Canada or Australia, and competition for
   them is getting more intense as some of the brightest head to China
   and other parts of Asia. A blue card would at least make it clear to
   migrant professionals that they would be welcome. On the other hand,
   highly skilled workers go in search of dynamic economies, along with
   the high pay and bright careers they offer, and a blue card would do
   nothing to bring more dynamism to Europe.

   What of the less skilled? Mr Frattini points to a pilot project in
   Spain over the past two years in which Moroccans--especially
   women--have been brought in to do specific jobs on farms and in hotels
   for a few months at a time and then sent home again. Contracts are
   drawn up beforehand, travel is part-funded by the EU, everything is
   above board, and so far every migrant has gone back as agreed. As a
   result, 10,000 Moroccan workers did not have to run the risk of taking
   a patera across the Strait of Gibraltar. They were able to send
   remittances home but put no strain on Spain's public services. Mr
   Frattini wants to launch another pilot programme in his native Italy,
   where southern farmers might recruit workers from Egypt or Tunisia.
   Moldova and Ukraine want to get involved in similar schemes.

   A new kind of Gastarbeiter...

   If the projects work (one in Corsica was less successful), Mr Frattini
   would like to scale them up, with member countries eventually setting
   import quotas for foreign labour. The EU is planning to establish job
   centres in north Africa, beginning with one in Mali, to offer a legal
   route to jobs in Europe, and also provide some language training.

   But this part of what Mr Frattini and others call circular migration
   has been tried before and seems unlikely to bring the hoped-for
   benefits. Germany's Gastarbeiter scheme began in 1955, drawing workers
   first from southern Europe and north Africa and then Turkey. Something
   similar was done in France and the Netherlands, mostly with workers
   from north Africa. America imported Mexican farm labourers under its
   Bracero programme.

   The trouble is that such a dirigiste design is not well suited to
   today's liberal democracies and their flexible labour markets. And
   unless schemes are tightly regulated and the exit of workers is
   enforced by law, everybody has an interest in keeping the supposedly
   termporary workers in place. Employers would much prefer not to have
   to train new people every six months, and workers want to keep their
   jobs or move on to better ones. Many of the guest workers who arrived
   in northern Europe from Turkey and north Africa in the 1960s and 1970s
   never left, and eventually brought their families to live with them
   too. The old joke that there is nothing so permanent as a temporary
   migrant has more than a grain of truth in it.

   It might be possible to create financial incentives for migrants to
   leave at the end of their contract period. Co-operation between the
   governments of the host and the sending countries would be essential,
   says Mr Frattini. And migrants could be policed more tightly with the
   aid of new technology: ID cards, databases with biometric details,
   systems like E-verify in America that allow employers to check whether
   workers are authorised to be in the country. Proponents of circular
   migration admit that it would entail a loss of privacy.

   The biggest problem, though, is that people who expect to be packed
   off home after six months will be seen as second-class residents, and
   will have less incentive to integrate with their hosts. Why learn the
   language or adopt local habits and values for just a few months?
   Locals, for their part, are likely to view temporary labourers with
   the same sort of hostility as longer-term immigrants.

   When migration is made legal and easy, many migrants choose to go home
   after a year or two. Easily crossed borders allow people to become
   what some researchers call "pendulum migrants", those who split their
   year between two different countries. This is already a
   well-established habit in rich countries. Growing numbers of wealthy
   Germans, Britons or Nordics spend parts of the year somewhere sunny
   and then go home again. Perhaps more of this sort of movement could be
   encouraged, with rich countries offering workers multi-entry visas
   valid for several years at a time.

   Yet any sort of circular migration brings challenges of integration.
   Faster movements of people, combined with technology--cable television
   piping entertainment from the sending country, cheap phone and video
   calls back home--slow the rate at which migrants adopt their host
   country's language, values and identity. Migration, suggests Mr
   Moudden in Rabat, "is changing our whole understanding of citizenship,
   of the nation".

   In the past a third-generation migrant, for example in America, would
   have been expected to have shed much of his grandparents' identity.
   Academics reckoned that a second-generation migrant would be fluent in
   his host country's language but would use his mother tongue at home.
   By the third generation descendents of migrants had usually swapped to
   English alone. That pattern may be changing as migrants feel loyalty
   to more than one country. Moroccans in Europe, for example, even
   third- and fourth-generation ones, are encouraged by the government in
   Rabat to identify with the north African country. All are granted
   irrevocable Moroccan citizenship under the constitution, even as
   European countries, notably the Netherlands, are turning against the
   idea of their nationals holding dual citizenship. The incentives for
   Morocco are clear: it wants citizens abroad to remit funds, to invest
   back home and to support its political ambitions. "We look at how the
   Jews in America do it, how that community has the ability to maintain
   ties with Israel and be good Americans, that is how we want it," says
   Mr Moudden.

   ...and of citizenship

   The idea of dual identities may be unsettling for some--in France, for
   example, all citizens are considered French--but governments of
   sending countries increasingly want close ties with their émigrés.
   Hyphenated migrants like Italian-Americans and African-Americans may
   become more widespread in other countries too. As India, China,
   Ethiopia and others grow more intent on tapping their diaspora for
   remittances and other support, migrants, even several generations on,
   may come under greater pressure to retain some of their old identity.

   Conversely, the governments of receiving countries, especially in
   Europe, are doing far more to encourage migrants to absorb the values
   and habits of their host societies, giving up on an idea of
   multiculturalism that left ethnic groups free to preserve their
   languages and habits as they wished. In Britain a newly formed Justice
   Ministry is planning to draw up a statement of British values to which
   all residents might be expected to subscribe. In Britain, the
   Netherlands, Australia and many other countries, those applying for
   citizenship are expected to demonstrate their knowledge of their host
   society by passing an exam. France's Mr Sarkozy wants to inculcate
   French values into all French nationals.

   When France takes up the rotating presidency of the EU in 2008 Mr
   Sarkozy plans to launch a campaign for the promotion of "European
   values". More countries will push the idea of a "contract for
   citizenship", suggests Gregory Maniatis, a migration expert in New
   York, under which migrants will have to learn the language and way of
   life of their host country.

   These rival pressures on migrants' identity are likely to get stronger
   and more complex as patterns of migration change, with people moving
   greater distances and settling among different ethnic, religious and
   cultural groups. Danes in Sweden or Albanians in Greece have little
   trouble integrating into the relatively familiar societies next door.
   Even Poles in Ireland prosper, perhaps thanks to the incomers' good
   standard of education and skill and the shared Catholic faith. But
   Iraqis in Sweden, Somalis in Canada or Pakistanis in Norway typically
   find integration harder. Migrants who preserve--or even develop for
   the first time, perhaps as second-generation immigrants--a strong
   religious sense that cuts across any national loyalty may be the
   hardest of all to assimilate in broadly secular Western societies.

   The touchiest question these days is how best to help Muslims to
   integrate into Western countries. Providing a decent education,
   offering language training, enforcing anti-discrimination laws to
   ensure access to jobs and discouraging ghettos are all tried and
   trusted methods to help any migrant to feel more at home. The lesson
   from America, Britain and elsewhere is that the more highly skilled
   people settle in very quickly and that many of the lower-skilled also
   catch up eventually.

   But tackling an extremist minority, or its sympathisers, is quite
   another matter. Specific initiatives to encourage better co-operation
   with moderate Muslim countries such as Morocco, which are as worried
   as host countries in the West that their diaspora could become
   radicalised, may be worth trying. Deploying moderate imams and Muslim
   scholars to counter extremist propaganda within some Islamic migrant
   communities might also be helpful. Taking care that anti-terrorist
   efforts do not vilify Muslims in Western countries is self-evidently
   sensible.

   Yet it is worth remembering that over the years democracies on both
   sides of the Atlantic have managed to absorb large numbers of migrants
   from diverse backgrounds. Robert Putnam, an academic at Harvard, is
   worried that greater diversity in rich countries may mean a short-term
   decline in what he calls social capital--trust, co-operation, shared
   values--within those countries. He points to research in America
   showing that greater diversity--usually in areas with high rates of
   immigration--is often associated with more fear of crime and other
   social problems.

   But Mr Putnam also points to the experience of once divided
   institutions in America, such as the army, where people of different
   backgrounds, with some encouragement, have learned to integrate well.
   And he considers the example of immigrants who came to America a
   century ago, including those of different religious beliefs, such as
   Russian Jews and Polish Catholics, who went on to share social capital
   in the same way as anybody else.

   There is evidence that foreigners are still following that model. For
   example, a survey in America by the Pew Hispanic Centre shows that the
   vast majority (94%) of Hispanic adults in the country who were born of
   immigrant parents claim to be fluent English speakers. It may take a
   few decades for rich countries to integrate newcomers, but history
   suggests that it will happen before too long.


   [3]Buy a PDF of this complete special report, including all graphics,
   for saving or one-click printing.

   The Economist can supply standard or customised reprints of special
   reports. For more information and to place an order online, please
   visit the [4]Rights and Syndication website.


   [3]Buy a PDF of this complete quarterly, including all graphics, for
   saving or one-click printing.

   Reprints

   Reprints are available should you wish to order extra copies of the
   quarterly. Please send your request to the relevant region:

   Worldwide (excluding North America):

   Rights and Syndication Department
   26 Red Lion Square
   London
   WC1R 4HQ
   United Kingdom

   Tel: +44 (0)20 7576 8000
   Fax: +44 (0)20 7576 8492
   E-mail: [4]rights@economist.com

   US and Canada only:

   Gail Randall

   Tel: +1 416 438 7657
   Toll free: +1 866 448 4464
   Fax: +1 416 438 6459
   Toll free fax: +1 866 661 6686
   E-mail: [5]economist@lettscanada.com

   Corporate offers and customised reprints

   For corporate reprint orders of 500 or more and customisation options,
   please contact the Rights and Syndication Department in the relevant
   region:

   Worldwide (excluding North America):

   Rights and Syndication Department
   26 Red Lion Square
   London
   WC1R 4HQ
   United Kingdom

   Tel: +44 (0)20 7576 8000
   Fax: +44 (0)20 7576 8492
   E-mail: [6]rights@economist.com

   US and Canada only:

   Gail Randall

   Tel: +1 416 438 7657
   Toll free: +1 866 448 4464
   Fax: +1 416 438 6459
   Toll free fax: +1 866 661 6686
   E-mail: [7]economist@lettscanada.com


   Rich economies gain from high levels of migration, but the benefits
   are unevenly spread

   FOR the past two decades or so, high rates of immigration into OECD
   countries have coincided with prolonged economic growth in much of the
   Western world. Consider Cobh, a bustling tourist town in southern
   Ireland which used to be famous for exporting people. Some 2.5m
   Irishmen and women embarked for America from its quayside, and its
   great and gloomy neo-gothic cathedral was paid for by remittances.

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

                                                            They need her

   Now, like the rest of Ireland, Cobh heaves with foreign workers. There
   are Poles on building sites, Latvians who own a shop selling
   dumplings, sauerkraut and other continental delicacies, a South
   African in the tourist office and another driving a taxi, Chinese in
   restaurants, a Bangladeshi managing a fishing business, and so on. A
   hotel owner says that he could not do without the migrants: when he
   recently advertised for a receptionist, none of the 200 applicants was
   Irish.

   Migration can be both a consequence and a cause of economic
   well-being, but many people in host countries with lots of migrants
   have yet to be convinced of the economic benefits. A poll in November
   2007, for France 24, found that 55% of Spaniards consider migrants a
   boon for their economy, and so do 50% of Italians, but only 42% of
   Britons and Germans and a mere 30% of French respondents.

   Some of the hostility towards immigration seems linked to worries
   about the economy. If recession looms, locals are more afraid that
   outsiders will take their jobs or scrounge on their welfare systems.
   The last time that immigration in America was as high as it is now,
   just under a century ago, xenophobia rose as recession took hold.
   Today, amid concerns that a housing slide could lead to a general
   economic slump, American anxiety about migration is rising again. But
   the poor worry about immigration even when the economy is thriving.

   Legal migrants usually have better job prospects than illegal ones,
   and the more educated outdo the rest. Not all of them stay. Nearly a
   third of those who crossed the Atlantic to America between 1890 and
   1914--and as many as half the Spaniards and Italians--re-emigrated.
   Similarly, surveys today show that a majority of Poles in Britain plan
   to go home within a few years.

   Some migrants do better not only than those left behind but also than
   those in their destination countries. The Institute for Public Policy
   Research, a British think-tank, found in 2007 that the foreign-born of
   many ethnic groups are both more likely to have a job and to be better
   paid than the average Briton. In America, over the past century,
   studies have shown migrants' wages catching up with, and then often
   surpassing, those of average Americans. Migrants' children do well
   too. This is not surprising. Migrants need health, skills,
   determination, a willingness to take risks and some entrepreneurial
   nous to take the plunge, which marks them out as special people.

   Assuming that migrants are in work, they are bound to benefit the
   economy of the host country as a whole. Most simply, an expanding
   workforce permits faster growth. More people can do more work, and
   many migrants are young adults who are particularly productive.
   Moreover, migrants increasingly alleviate specific labour shortages in
   rich economies. Some economies could not function without foreign
   workers. In the United Arab Emirates, for instance, they make up an
   astonishing 85% of the population.

   For the moment few other countries rely so heavily on outsiders (see
   chart 2), but in a number of rich countries, including Britain and
   America, foreigners typically make up 10-15% of the labour force and
   their share is rising. Around half of the new jobs created in Britain
   today are filled by migrants, often because they have skills that
   locals lack (from plumbing to banking) or because natives scorn the
   work (from picking fruit to caring for the elderly).

   Low jobless rates in Ireland, Sweden, Britain, America and other
   countries with high migration suggest that, so far, foreigners are not
   squeezing out natives. Migrants also help to create jobs, because a
   good supply of labour encourages those with capital to invest more.
   For example, the hotel owner in Cobh, knowing he can find affordable
   staff, has added an extension with extra rooms. In contrast, countries
   where migrants have been kept at arm's length, such as Germany,
   complain about a chronic shortage of skilled workers such as
   engineers, scientists or programmers.

   Just say the word

   Foreign workers are often more flexible than native ones, too. Having
   already moved from Mexico to California, say, they are probably
   willing to take a job in Chicago. Migrant labour helps to keep
   economies on an even keel. At times of strong growth, an influx of
   workers reduces the risk of wage pressures and rising inflation. If
   growth weakens, migrants can go home or move to another country, or
   choose not to come in the first place. For example, the flow of
   Mexicans to America is probably slowing as the housing slump worsens
   and construction jobs disappear.

   Migrants can also release skilled natives to do a job (for example by
   providing child care that allows a parent to go back to work). And
   they are consumers, too, renting accommodation and buying goods and
   services. The owner of the off-licence in Cobh is delighted by his
   Polish customers, who are fond of bison grass vodka and east European
   lager. Cobh's supermarket, fast-food restaurants and other shops are
   flourishing too.

   Quantifying the impact of all this is tricky. A 2007 report by
   PricewaterhouseCoopers concluded that a surge in migration has helped
   to lift Britain's growth rate above its long-term trend. Alexandros
   Zavos, of the Hellenic Migration Policy Institute in Athens, reckons
   that immigration into Greece has recently added as much as 1.5-2.0% to
   its GDP every year. For countries that have long had high rates of
   immigration, such as America, sustained economic growth partly
   reflects an ever-growing workforce.

   Sceptics say that migration may boost the economy as a whole, but on a
   per-head basis the benefits for the natives are less impressive.
   Migrationwatch, an anti-migration group in Britain, reckons that for
   the average Briton the inflow of foreigners provides just a few extra
   pence a week. Roy Beck, an anti-immigrant activist in America,
   suggests that countries with ageing workforces should try to make
   their economies less labour-dependent. His country is "addicted to
   foreign labour", he says, and more capital investment and more
   training for locals would reduce the need for foreign workers. But
   some jobs (such as cleaning or nursing) cannot be sent abroad or
   mechanised. And even if more natives can be trained to do highly
   skilled work, shrinking native workforces in many countries could mean
   economic contraction.

   Some of the sceptics' arguments touch raw political nerves,
   particularly when it comes to the least well-off natives in the host
   country. In America the share of national income that is going to the
   poorest has been shrinking in recent decades. Inequality has increased
   and the real wages of the least skilled have fallen. Circumstantial
   evidence suggests that foreigners, who typically work in less skilled
   jobs, might be partly to blame. According to one estimate, they make
   up around 28% of legal construction workers in America and over a
   third of maids and housekeepers. If the illegal workers could be
   counted, the figures would probably be much higher still.

   Cheap and cheerful

   Do migrants make life worse for poor natives? Studies comparing wages
   in American cities with and without lots of foreigners suggest that
   they make little difference to the income of the poorest. George
   Borjas of Harvard University, who compared wages for different kinds
   of jobs where migrants most obviously compete with natives, estimated
   that immigration in America in the two decades to 2000 may have kept
   wages 3% lower than they would otherwise have been. For the least
   skilled the difference may have been as much as 8%. But Mr Borjas also
   calculated how a rise in the number of migrants might have encouraged
   the creation of jobs, which reduced the impact on wages.

   This tallies with the outcome of natural experiments in recent
   history, such as the influx of 610,000 Russian Jews into Israel in the
   early 1990s, the return of 900,000 Frenchmen from Algeria in 1962 or
   the homecoming of 600,000 Portuguese after the collapse of their
   empire in Africa in 1974-76. Each time the influx of workers expanded
   the workforce and wages dropped slightly, but subsequently recovered.
   Given prolonged immigration, argues Steven Camorata of the Centre for
   Immigration Studies, the impact is sustained. He thinks that "it's the
   poorest 10% [of Americans] who seem to lose out, cutting their wages
   by perhaps 5%."

   Worse, say the sceptics, migration may limit poor natives' chances of
   moving up to better-paid jobs. With changing economies that reward
   skills, it is anyway getting harder to move up the ladder from
   low-wage jobs to better-paid ones. Now migrants, especially those with
   skills and drive, are making life even harder for the weakest natives.

   A second worry is that migrants will put a strain on public services
   and the tax system. It is in schools, public housing and doctors'
   surgeries that natives come face to face with migrants and it is often
   at the local and state level, where responsibility for such services
   usually lies, that hostility to migrants seems strongest. Local
   councils in Britain complain that clinics and schools are overloaded
   and central government is slow to dish out help, and local police in
   areas with many immigrants blame foreigners for a rise in crime.

   In Greece, as new illegal immigrants arrive at remote spots on the
   border, officials complain that they lack funds for policing and
   social services. The prefect of Samos laments that "we are given a
   short bedsheet to cover our body." In America hostility to migrants is
   greatest where they have recently been arriving in large numbers, not
   where their absolute numbers are highest (near the borders or in big
   cities, such as New York). Several states have passed tough new laws
   banning illegal migrants from using their public services.

   But crowding, although likely to cause resentment, results from the
   unexpected arrival of those migrants, with bureaucracies taking time
   to allocate resources to the right places. In itself, it does not
   prove that migrants are a drag on public services as a whole. Indeed,
   migrants often make a large contribution to the public purse. When a
   foreign worker first arrives, usually as a young adult, fully educated
   and in good health, he makes few demands on schools or clinics. A
   legal immigrant will pay taxes just like any native; even an illegal
   one will contribute something (if only through the tax on those
   bottles of bison grass vodka). If the immigrant stays on (and quite a
   few do not), the benefits will diminish as he ages, but at least he
   has given his host country a breathing space.

   To complicate matters, highly skilled migrants contribute much more to
   tax and social-security systems than do less skilled ones. A study in
   America by the National Research Council suggests that migrants with
   an education beyond high school contribute an average of $105,000 to
   the tax coffers over their lifetime. By contrast, the least educated
   migrants are reckoned to leave the taxman with a $89,000 hole. But
   migrants as a whole, in the long term and counting the contribution of
   their children when they grow up and get jobs, are not a drain on
   public services. For rich countries with ageing workforces in
   particular, gains from importing the young, the energetic and those
   willing to take risks comfortably outweigh the costs.


   Intellectual property: A new scheme will solicit comments via the
   internet to improve the vetting of patent applications

                                                             Lucy Vigrass

                                Lucy Vigrass

   PATENT examiners, who scrutinise applications for patents and
   determine whether they ought to be granted or not, are used to poring
   over diagrams of complicated contraptions. But now the patent system
   itself, just as complex in its own way, is under increasing scrutiny.

   The number of applications has soared in recent years, but patent
   offices have been unable to keep up--resulting in huge backlogs and
   lengthy delays. Standards have slipped and in America the number of
   lawsuits over contested patents has shot up (see chart). In an attempt
   to fix these problems, the United States Patent and Trademark Office
   (USPTO), Britain's Intellectual Property Office (IPO) and the European
   Patent Office are evaluating a radical change: opening the process up
   to internet-based collaboration.

   The scheme, known as "Peer to Patent", was created by Beth Simone
   Noveck, a professor at New York Law School. It applies an unusual form
   of peer review to a process which traditionally involves only a patent
   applicant and an examiner. Anybody who is interested may comment on a
   patent application via the internet. The scheme was launched as a
   one-year pilot programme in America on June 15th. Sean Dennehey of
   Britain's IPO, who sits on the project's advisory board, says his
   organisation will follow suit by the end of the year. The project is
   being supported by big technology firms including IBM, Microsoft and
   Hewlett-Packard.

   An efficient patent system is essential for the promotion of
   innovation. Patents give inventors a temporary monopoly on a new idea
   in return for disclosing how it works, so that others can subsequently
   build upon it. But if a patent is granted for something that is not
   novel (people are already doing it), or is obvious (any Tom, Dick, or
   Harry in the field could think it up), it can hamper innovation by
   turning a widely used invention or process into one person's monopoly.
   The trouble is that examiners cannot always tell when a patent is
   unwarranted.

   To prove that an invention is not novel, the patent examiner must find
   evidence that others have already done everything claimed in the
   patent, a quest known as a "prior art" search. Prior art is also the
   basis for determining whether some new step claimed in the invention
   is obvious--and therefore not worthy of a patent. But prior art can be
   elusive. It might be buried in an obscure technical journal, in
   conference slides, or in a doctoral thesis tucked away in a university
   library. It could even be embodied in a machine taken off the market
   years earlier. Finding prior art is hardest in fields where patenting
   is fairly new, such as software, biotechnology, financial services and
   business methods.

   Examiners are usually well versed in the technology they review and
   are adept at searching their office's collections of patents, along
   with other databases. But given the specialisation of modern science
   and technology, they cannot be expected to keep abreast of all the
   technical literature. To complicate matters further, says Jon Dudas,
   the director of the USPTO, patent applications have become more
   complex as well as more numerous: some applications contain thousands
   of claims. A biotech patent may be accompanied by gigabytes of
   computer data. And a quarter of the applications handled by the USPTO
   contain no references to prior art, adds Mr Dudas, while another
   quarter contain more than 25 references. This makes it hard for
   examiners to decide which ones deserve the closest scrutiny.

   There have already been several attempts to overhaul the system. Court
   cases and regulatory changes have altered it in various ways in recent
   years, but this has not done away with the perception that the system
   is in crisis, nor silenced those calling for further reform. In
   "Innovation and its Discontents", a book published in 2004, Adam Jaffe
   and Josh Lerner argue that some reforms have even made things worse.
   And "Patent Failure", a forthcoming book by James Bessen and Michael
   Meurer, argues that America's system does inventors more harm than
   good. Other critics have called for the elimination of patents on
   software, business processes and human genes.

   Several independent outfits already supplement the official
   patent-granting institutions. Among them is Patent Lens, run by
   CAMBIA, a non-profit research institute, which tries to make it easier
   to track down relevant patents in a particular field. Similarly,
   PatentFizz is a website that makes it easy to find out about
   particular patents, comment on them and even add references to prior
   art. In both cases the aim is to open the working of the patent system
   up to greater scrutiny.

   Peer to Patent builds on these ideas, especially the notion that
   practitioners and researchers within a particular field collectively
   have all the relevant prior art at their fingertips already. All the
   patent office needs to do, therefore, is to get that community to tell
   it what it already knows. Peer to Patent does this using the latest
   web-based collaboration tools, such as voting and tagging, which can
   harness the collective knowledge of a large number of users.

   The USPTO wants YOU

   The USPTO's pilot scheme will scrutinise 250 patent applications in a
   handful of computer-related fields, with the approval of the
   applicants. The first examples have been submitted by IBM, Intel,
   Microsoft and other technology giants. The text of each application is
   posted in full for public scrutiny, and members of the public can sign
   up to participate in the review process. They can discuss each
   application in an online forum, suggest examples of prior art, and
   vote for the prior art they consider most relevant. Messages that are
   considered off-topic can be flagged, and there are plans to allow
   participants to rate each other, so that the most highly regarded
   participants' recommendations rise to the top of the pile.

                                                             Lucy Vigrass
                                                             Lucy Vigrass

   Tagging, a common feature of many modern websites, is also used.
   Patents in new fields often sound like gobbledygook, since each
   inventor makes up his own terminology. But a user familiar with the
   field in question may realise that the invention matches something
   already in use under a different name. By adding an appropriate tag,
   that user can attract the attention of experts with a comprehensive
   knowledge of the field's prior art.

   Eventually, the ten pieces of prior art that receive most votes in the
   Peer to Patent community perusing each patent are sent to the patent
   examiner. As with conventional patent applications, examiners will
   still choose which prior art is referred to in their decision on a
   patent application, known as an "office action". But the community's
   explanations, discussion and examples will be taken into account.

   The pilot Peer to Patent scheme allows examiners and volunteer
   participants to provide feedback to refine the process. A total of 18
   measures will be used to assess the scheme and evaluate its
   effectiveness, including the number of items of prior art provided by
   the community that appear in office actions; the number of claims
   changed by applicants as a result of queries raised by the community;
   and the number of volunteer participants signed up, as well as their
   level of participation.

                                                  [spacer.gif] [gray.gif]
                                                             [spacer.gif]
      "The information provided should improve patent examiners' grasp of
                                                highly technical fields."
                                                             [spacer.gif]
                                                               [gray.gif]

   Mr Dudas says he considers Peer to Patent to be a "natural step" in
   opening up the patent system and fulfilling its original goal of
   encouraging the publication of new ideas. In Britain, Mr Dennehey
   regards Peer to Patent as a more up-to-date way for the public to
   submit observations during a patent examination, something already
   permitted by law. (In America, third parties are allowed to submit
   only prior art without comments under the current system.) Patent
   lawyers are also intrigued. Mark Costello, general patent counsel at
   Xerox, an American document-management company, says the idea has
   merit, but that he will be watching closely to see "whether it remains
   a fair and objective system after competitors enter the process".

   The scheme's immediate impact is likely to be minimal. Patent
   applicants are free to ignore the online community's discussions and
   respond only to the office action, as they always have. But if Peer to
   Patent succeeds, "we will have made the most significant improvement
   to the patent system in decades, and done a great service to the
   public and the economy," says Manny Schecter, a member of the
   project's steering committee and an intellectual-property lawyer at
   IBM.

   The hope is that Peer to Patent will reduce both uncertainty for
   inventors and unnecessary lawsuits because dodgy applications will be
   uncovered and rejected quickly. This ought to mean that patents issued
   will be stronger, leading to fewer challenges by those required to
   license them. Indirectly, the scheme could also help innovators to
   commercialise their ideas, since stronger patents will make
   patent-holders' work more attractive to investors.

   The information provided by the Peer to Patent community should also
   help patent examiners to improve their understanding of highly
   technical fields. Inventors and patent lawyers--who currently depend
   on the patent office's collection of patents and prior art when
   conducting prior-art searches--should gain, too.

   For all that, some observers are sceptical about bits of the Peer to
   Patent process. They wonder whether people will really volunteer to
   provide examples of prior art, join discussions, and so on. Ms Noveck
   cites the widespread participation in other online communities--such
   as Wikipedia, a collaborative online encyclopedia--as evidence of the
   public's desire to contribute. But although everyone knows what an
   encyclopedia is, and the pages of Wikipedia can be edited with a few
   clicks, not many people understand the patent process, or know how to
   read a patent.

   Another concern is that the people who take part in the project will
   represent vested interests--in particular, big technology firms which
   can assign staff to review patents. There are also worries about the
   possibility of tacit collusion among large patent-holders, who might
   attack individual inventors in order to keep them out of specific
   markets.

   Ms Noveck, however, is a believer in grassroots democracy. If Peer to
   Patent's goal of cleaning up the patent system was not already
   audacious enough, she thinks the project could also serve as a
   demonstration that the public, helped by technology, can participate
   more fully in its own governance. Unfortunately, Peer to Patent
   suffers from the same vulnerabilities as other democratic
   institutions. If the public engages with it earnestly, it could
   produce marvellous results. But if people tire of it and cede control
   to special interests that do not align with the public interest, Peer
   to Patent could devolve into just another prop for the status quo. The
   project's outcome, at this early stage, remains uncertain. But it is
   surely worth a try.


   Despite a growing backlash, the boom in migration has been mostly good
   for both sending and recipient countries, says Adam Roberts
   (interviewed [3]here)

                                                                  Eyevine

                                  Eyevine

   ENOCH POWELL had a point. The Conservative British politician gave
   warning, nearly four decades ago, that immigrants were causing such
   strife that "like the Roman, I seem to see the River Tiber foaming
   with much blood." That proved to be nonsense, as did his advice that
   migrants should be encouraged to leave. Had they done so, Britain and
   other rich countries that depend heavily on foreign labour would be in
   a dreadful state. But one prediction he made was spot on: that by
   about now, one in ten people in Britain would be migrants. And indeed,
   at the last count in 2005, the foreign-born made up 9.7% of the
   British population.

   By historical standards, that is high. It is a lot more than a decade
   ago, and the trend is resolutely upwards. Yet it is not dissimilar to
   that in many other rich countries, which have mostly seen equally
   rapid increases. And it is still lower than in America, where the
   proportion is now about 13%, not far off the 15% peak reached just
   before the first world war, in the previous great era of migration.
   What is particularly striking in Europe is that many countries which
   until recently had known only emigration, such as Ireland or Greece,
   are now seeing the sort of influx more typical of countries such as
   Australia and America.

   This special report will argue that both emigration and immigration
   countries, as well as the migrants themselves, have been coping
   remarkably well with this new force that is reshaping our world. Yet
   there are now signs of a serious backlash against immigration on both
   sides of the Atlantic. In 2007 activists in America smashed a bill to
   make immigration easier that had the backing of the president and the
   leaders of both big parties in Congress. In France, Nicolas Sarkozy
   won the presidential elections partly thanks to his anti-migrant
   rhetoric. But this is still a far cry from Mr Powell's doom-mongering.

   Politicians in rich countries may tinker with migration policies. They
   will certainly, under public pressure, put extra resources and energy
   into building more fences and walls to keep people out. And by making
   a connection between immigration and terrorism, they may cause their
   societies to become more heavily policed. But the basic forces driving
   migration are unlikely to ebb.

   Counting the ways

   People who cross international borders are often categorised by their
   motives, and some of these categories are seen as less desirable than
   others. Most migrants move for economic reasons, many in search of
   jobs, some to be united with relatives. Most appear to be doing so
   legally. America in 2002-06 allowed in an average of just over 1m
   legal immigrants a year who planned to settle permanently, more than
   half of them sponsored by relatives. Another 320,000 a year entered
   temporarily.

   The number of illegal migrants is by definition hard to ascertain, but
   likely to be smaller than the legal sort. The illegals also go for
   economic reasons, and they probably make up the bulk of people seen
   floating on rafts in the Mediterranean or scrabbling over the fence
   from Mexico to America. Many illegal migrants do not risk the high
   seas or physical borders but instead enter under some other guise,
   perhaps as tourists, and then stay on. In that same period of 2002-06,
   America's population is thought to have seen a net gain of 500,000
   illegal migrants every year. Within the European Union it has become
   impossible to keep a tally because people can move legally among most
   of the member countries without asking anyone. Britain, as an island,
   should find it easier than most to know how many foreigners it has
   allowed in, but its statistics on migrants have recently turned out to
   be way off the mark.

   Lastly, there are refugees and asylum-seekers, strictly defined as
   those escaping persecution but often including anybody forced to flee,
   for example from a war. According to the UN's refugee agency, at the
   close of 2006 some 10m people fell into this category. Many go through
   legal channels, applying for refugee status and then asylum. But
   others join illegal migrants in trying to reach host countries by raft
   or by jumping over a fence. Genuine refugees may have no alternative.

   The 200m question

   The number of migrants in the world today, both legal and illegal, is
   thought to total perhaps 200m (though many of the figures, even those
   used by governments, are at best educated guesses). That sounds a lot,
   but it adds up to only 3% of the world's population, so there is great
   potential for growth. Migration has turned out to be a successful
   strategy for the world's poor to make their lives a little better. Nor
   is it the very poorest who travel. You need money to move to another
   part of the world. Thus as Africa, China and other emerging countries
   become less poor, many more people can aspire to travel in search of a
   better life.

   In the 100 years to 1920, such prospects encouraged some 60m Europeans
   to uproot themselves and move to the New World. A European who crossed
   the Atlantic could expect to double his income. Today the incentives
   are even more enticing. Those who move from a poor country to a rich
   one can expect to see their income rise fivefold or more. As long as
   such differentials persist, the draw will continue.

   These days, too, demography is playing a big part in migration. Not
   every migrant is aiming for America or Europe: perhaps two in every
   five move to another poor or middle-income country. But those who go
   to the richest parts of the world do their inhabitants a favour.
   Without migrants, the greying and increasingly choosy populations in
   much of the rich world would already be on the decline today. That
   matters for their fast-changing economies, which increasingly demand
   either highly skilled workers or people willing to do unpleasant and
   tiring jobs.

   One reason why much of the world has enjoyed a sustained economic boom
   with low inflation in the past decade is that the effective global
   workforce is expanding so fast. The IMF says it has quadrupled since
   1980 as China and India have plugged their huge young populations into
   the world economy. It is likely to keep on growing, though at a slower
   pace, with a 40% increase in the world's working-age population
   forecast by 2050. According to the UN,the global stock of migrants has
   more than doubled in the past four decades. Not enough young natives
   have the right skills or motivation, so the rich must hope that
   outsiders will keep coming.

   And they will. Luckily for Europe and America, there are huge pools of
   eager workers ready to jump on the next plane, train or leaking raft
   to work abroad. This can be beneficial for their home countries as
   well, at least as long as the population is growing fast. The IMF says
   that emigration from Belize, El Salvador, Guyana and Jamaica, for
   example, may have led to higher wages and less poverty. Some Chinese
   from the heavily populated east coast are moving out, despite a
   fast-growing economy. Researchers in Africa report a recent rapid
   inflow of Chinese workers.

   If exporting brawn generally makes sense for a poor country, sending
   its better brains away may not. Most, perhaps all, poor and
   middle-income countries face chronic shortages of skilled workers. In
   South Africa, although universities churn out graduates at a fast
   clip, many well-qualified people promptly depart for Britain or
   Australia, leaving tens of thousands of jobs unfilled at home. In
   Morocco those with science and engineering degrees, computer skills
   and languages go to France, the Netherlands and Canada, whereas the
   students of literature and public administration stay at home.
   Professor Mohamed Khachami, of AMERM, a migration think-tank in Rabat,
   laments that his country lacks people to build better internet
   connections, yet Paris now has an association for Moroccan IT
   engineers. Hospitals and clinics in southern Africa struggle to cope
   with huge public-health problems as doctors and nurses pack their bags
   for jobs in the Gulf, Europe and elsewhere. It is a similar story for
   schools.

   Those in demand abroad are the hardest people to keep at home. Some
   European countries tried, and failed, to stop artisans emigrating to
   America in the early 19th century. In fact it is almost impossible to
   block the exit for the highly skilled if the lure is strong enough.
   Small countries such as Jamaica, Trinidad and Senegal have seen half
   to three-quarters of all their graduates move abroad.

   Rich countries have taken in more highly skilled migrants than ever
   before. The World Bank looked at a sample drawn from 52m migrants in
   20 rich countries in 2000 and found that 36% of them had a college
   education, a sharp rise on a decade earlier. Yet emigration of skilled
   workers may be a consequence rather than a cause of problems in the
   sending country. For example, nurses may be quitting Malawi because
   their salaries are not being paid or because hospitals are crumbling;
   entrepreneurs may be moving abroad because the business climate back
   home is wretched. Stopping emigration, even if you could, would not
   solve the problems. The nurses might still leave their jobs, the
   would-be entrepreneur might sit on his hands.

   Indeed, some argue that emigration can help to add to the stock of
   brainpower. Migrants who go abroad may spend more time studying, pick
   up more skills and experience and then bring them all home again.
   Remittances are often used to fund schooling. And the prospect of
   emigration and prosperity abroad may be an inducement for many more to
   get an education. All this suggests that the consequences of skilled
   emigration are difficult to calculate, even if they are not
   negligible.

   Governments of sending countries would do well to tackle whatever
   factors are pushing their skilled people out in the first place.
   Malawi, which exports a lot of nurses, should of course worry that it
   lacks medical staff. It is said that there are more Malawian nurses in
   Manchester than back home. But, perhaps with donors' help, more
   investment in public health could be combined with a strategy of
   training many more nurses than are needed, allowing for future
   emigration and the other benefits that brings. If migrants can be
   tempted back home, even for short spells, all the better. Ghana, for
   example, has raised wages for some medical staff and offered
   incentives to the highest-skilled to come back. Money is not the only
   concern: staff are also allowed parts of the year to work abroad,
   giving a boost to their careers.

   There is no guarantee that migration will carry on at record rates. It
   is possible to seal borders tightly enough to keep more people out if
   those inside are ready to pay the price. An earlier period of great
   migration came to an end, for example, when America some 90 years ago
   shut its doors to immigrants for a while.

   But easier movement of capital and goods has helped to make the world
   a much richer place in the past decade or two, and more human mobility
   has both created wealth and helped to share it out more equally. The
   billions sent around the world in remittances each year is testimony
   to that. The price of keeping people out would be high.

   And unexpected things keep happening. Wars can suddenly displace
   millions of people who may start off as refugees but end up as
   migrants. Some people think that climate change might force tens of
   millions of people to get moving within just a few decades. Misguided
   policies, a backlash over terrorism or a failure to integrate migrants
   could all cause serious problems. All the same, it seems clear, 40
   years on, that Mr Powell got everything but his sums completely wrong.


   Why the Bank of England may cut rates next month

   FORGET BC and AD. For the financial markets, the date dividing two
   eras is August 9th, when the financial markets seized up. Before then
   the City was sure that the base rate would rise this autumn to 6%.
   Instead, the Bank of England's rate-setters decided for the third
   month running to keep it at 5.75%, when they met on October 4th. As
   far as the City is concerned, the question now is not whether the base
   rate is coming down but when.

   The do-nothing decision by the bank's monetary-policy committee (MPC)
   may seem cautious, given that in America the Federal Reserve has
   already cut interest rates by half a percentage point. But the
   American economy has been weakening because of a sharp downturn in the
   housing market. In contrast, the British economy has been in fine
   fettle until this summer, not least because of the continuing buoyancy
   of house prices.

   The momentum of GDP growth before the financial turmoil of the past
   two months was underlined in recent official figures, which tweaked it
   up from 3.0% to 3.1% in the year to the second quarter. When the
   number-crunchers have completed all their revisions, recent growth may
   turn out to have been as fast as 3.5%, according to the bank. That's
   uncomfortably higher than the trend rate of 2.5-2.75% at a time when
   the economy has been operating at around full capacity.

   Already, however, there are signs that the economy is starting to
   slow. This week's surveys of purchasing managers indicated that the
   manufacturing and services sectors, though still performing well,
   weakened in September. A report from the Confederation of British
   Industry painted a particularly gloomy picture for the
   financial-services sector's prospects over the next three months.

   The housing market has remained surprisingly perky, but strains are
   beginning to appear there too. The number of mortgages approved for
   house purchase declined from 115,000 in July to 109,000 in August. In
   another sign that the market is slowing, house prices fell last month
   by 0.6% according to HBOS, a bank.

   More pain is likely, as credit conditions tighten because of the
   financial crisis. In the mortgage market, borrowers seeking two-year
   fixed-rate loans worth 95% of a home's value are now paying sharply
   more than those who need to finance only 75%. And companies have been
   hit hard: those taking out new loans at interest rates fixed for up to
   a year were charged 7.63% in August, up from 6.63% in June.

   As a result, the economic outlook is darkening. According to The
   Economist's poll of forecasters (see [3]article), GDP growth is now
   expected to slow quite substantially, from 2.9% this year to 2.1% in
   2008. The outcome could be even grimmer. Growth will slip to 1.4% next
   year, says CEBR, an outfit that keeps a close eye on the City, whose
   fortunes have taken a turn for the worse. As further evidence emerges
   that the economy is going to slow sharply, the MPC is likely to cut
   rates sooner rather than later. Relief may come as early as November.


   Nuclear power draws nearer as renewables retreat

   THE timing was impeccable. As the first hints of winter sent
   temperatures falling this week, British Energy, whose eight nuclear
   power stations can meet a fifth of Britain's electricity demand, said
   on October 22nd that it had discovered a technical problem in one of
   its reactors. Worried that three similar reactors might be similarly
   afflicted, it decided to shut two of them down and to delay restarting
   the other, which was offline for maintenance.

   British Energy shares dived 8% that day and short-term power prices
   jumped by about 15%. Unplanned outages have been commoner of late.
   Another of the firm's reactors is also offline due to an "electrical
   fault". Last year cracked boiler pipes forced a long shutdown at two
   other sites.

   For the nuclear lobby, such technical difficulties highlight the
   urgency of immediately replacing Britain's doddery old reactors, many
   of which date from the 1960s and 1970s. Environmentalists, most of
   whom oppose nuclear power, see things differently. They argue that
   British Energy's troubles are evidence that nuclear power is an
   unreliable technology that has no place in a modern energy mix.

   Unfortunately for greens, ministers seem to agree with the
   atom-splitters. Impressed by arguments that nuclear energy is a proven
   source of low-carbon power, and worried about the dependence on
   foreign fossil fuels caused by the decline of North Sea oil and gas,
   the government has been preparing the ground for a nuclear revival. An
   ostentatious public consultation on the issue finished this month, and
   some official pronouncement is expected in the next few months.
   Meanwhile EDF Energy, a French company, has pledged to build a plant
   by 2017, with three more to follow.

   Environmentalists fret that new nuclear plants will come at the
   expense of eco-friendly technologies such as wind and wave power. On
   October 23rd those fears seemed to be confirmed. The Guardian
   newspaper published extracts from a leaked document suggesting that
   Gordon Brown was trying to wriggle out of a pledge made by Tony Blair,
   his predecessor as prime minister, that 20% of European energy
   consumption would be met from renewable sources by 2020. Civil
   servants described the target as "expensive" and said that it faced
   "severe practical difficulties". That was a diplomatic way to speak of
   a target that Britain, which gets 2% of its energy from renewables
   now, has little chance of meeting. Malcolm Wicks, the energy minister,
   points out that the target is for Europe as a whole, and suggests
   Britain might manage 10-15% by the deadline.

   Stung by accusations that it is diluting its trumpeted commitment to
   greenery, the government details its support of all sorts of expensive
   schemes. A multi-million-pound competition to build a "clean" coal
   power plant that would trap and store carbon emissions in depleted oil
   fields is to be launched in November. Subsidies for renewable energy
   will be rejigged in the hope of encouraging technologies, such as
   solar or wave power, that are not yet competitive. But that cuts
   little ice with experts, most of whom agree that the government is
   unwilling to spend the money required to give renewables a big boost.
   "It is wedded to nuclear power," says Robin Webster of Friends of the
   Earth, a green group.

   Yet even if ministers row back on renewables, they may not get the new
   nuclear plants they want. Decades of decline have left the industry
   short of engineers. Economics is a problem too. The government insists
   that any nuclear stations must be built without state aid. But nuclear
   plants--with their huge capital costs and glacial start-up times--are
   a dicey proposition in Britain's liberalised electricity market, where
   prices fluctuate rapidly. Ministers are trying to make planning rules
   more nuclear-friendly, and hope that tighter carbon-emission limits
   will help nuclear energy shine by comparison with fossil-fuel plants.
   But Martin Brough of Oxera, an economics consultancy, thinks that more
   will be needed, most probably a guaranteed minimum carbon price. That
   would be tantamount to stifling the markets, and reneging on another
   energy promise.


   One suitor has been chosen, but others are forcing their way into the
   church

   AT FIRST it proceeded at a glacial pace, but the sale of Northern Rock
   has now picked up unseemly haste. On November 25th Richard Branson's
   Virgin Group was chosen as preferred bidder for the stricken bank,
   which is kept alive only by public money. The Sunday decision caught
   many by surprise, not least rival bidders who were either due to
   present their bids to the bank and the government in coming days, or
   had done so that weekend and had no inkling that things would move so
   fast.

   Such haste at this late stage is unlikely to serve the interest of
   taxpayers, who have lent over £20 billion ($41 billion) to the
   mortgage lender since it came cap in hand to the Bank of England in
   September. That was the time for urgent action, and Alistair Darling,
   the chancellor of the exchequer, could have moved far faster to sort
   out the mess.

   Instead he allowed the wretched affair to drag on. The delay has
   strengthened the hand of investors, including some hedge funds that
   have been busily extending their stakes. They are now threatening to
   veto any takeover that they reckon undervalues the bank--an audacious
   proposition considering that Northern Rock would have folded but for
   the support of the public purse.

   Bryan Sanderson, the newly-appointed chairman of Northern Rock, says
   Virgin was chosen because it offered something to all
   "stakeholders"--which sounds rather worrying. Sir Richard has proposed
   putting £200m of his own money together with Virgin Money, his
   financial-services business, into Northern Rock. Half of the £1.3
   billion of cash he proposes to raise would come from current
   shareholders through a deeply discounted new rights issue. He also
   promised to pay off £11 billion of the central bank's loan
   immediately, and the rest within three years.

   Purely on its own merits, the bargain is a poor one for taxpayers, for
   their risk is barely diminished: as all bankers know, it is not the
   first but the last pound of a loan that is hard to get back. Even if
   the government gets a commercial interest rate, it is still assuming a
   risk that the private sector is patently shunning. When judged against
   competing bids, the deal looks even worse. A rival proposal from J.C.
   Flowers, an American private-equity firm, for example, promised to
   repay more of the Bank of England's loan at once.

   The sudden rush to advance Virgin's case is ill-advised, however
   tempting the political arguments might be for getting Northern Rock
   off the front pages. If taxpayers are to take their chances on a
   private-sector rescue, a proper auction makes more sense than a
   shotgun wedding. A threat by big investors to reject Virgin's offer is
   now forcing the government and Northern Rock's board to think again.
   Several bidders are battering at the church doors with offers that may
   prove better value for shareholders and taxpayers alike. They should
   be let in.


   Developing countries attract migrants too

   THE complaints sound familiar. Foreigners steal our jobs. Aliens cause
   a rise in crime. The corrupt interior ministry cannot cope. The border
   is ineffective and deporting illegal migrants does not work: removed
   by train, they return on foot. Outsiders put a strain on housing,
   especially for the poor, and on hospitals and schools. But employers
   do not care: farmers want cheap labour, and rich families need skilful
   foreign gardeners and housekeepers.

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

                        Turfed out of Little London 

   Residents of Soweto, or other urban areas in South Africa, are likely
   to grumble about foreigners in the same way as in rich countries. The
   makwerekwere, as African foreigners are insultingly known, are
   attracted by South Africa's relative wealth. Some Tanzanians talk
   longingly of Johannesburg as "Little London". One in four Little
   Londoners may now be a foreigner. Zimbabwean teachers, forced out by
   hunger and repression, work as security guards and shop assistants.
   Congolese lawyers toil as waiters and chefs.

   In 2005 two World Bank researchers, Mr Ratha and William Shaw,
   estimated that two in five migrants--about 78m people--were outside
   rich countries. But who in the poor world is counting? South Africa's
   government does not know how many foreigners it has (2m? 5m? more?).
   Mexico, India or Turkey cannot be sure either. Total numbers are
   skewed by those displaced by the collapse of the Soviet Union or who
   became de facto migrants when borders moved.

   Ms Newland of the Migration Policy Institute in Washington, DC, says
   the flows between poor and mid-income countries are huge but
   "desperately understudied". One reason why outsiders pay little
   attention is that most poor migrants do not move far. Roughly half of
   all South-East Asian migrants are thought to have remained in the
   neighbourhood, and nearly two-thirds of migrants from eastern Europe
   and Central Asia have stayed in their own region. Nearly 70% of
   migrants from sub-Saharan Africa remain on their continent. West
   African countries do not limit immigration from their neighbours, so
   lots of people cross borders, for example from Ghana to oil-rich
   Nigeria.

   Some middle-income countries, such as Morocco, Mexico, Turkey and
   Libya, are well-trodden transit routes with migrant populations of
   their own. A senior civil servant in Morocco laments that his country
   is "between the hammer and the anvil" of Africa and Europe. Others,
   like India, Russia, South Africa and Argentina, are destinations in
   their own right. With all this come the same opportunities and threats
   as in the rich world. Chile imports doctors and maids from Peru,
   raising worries about a brain drain. Zambians fret about an invasion
   by Chinese, whose numbers in Africa are said to be between 80,000 to
   400,000, many in oil-rich countries such as Sudan, Nigeria and Angola.

   Remittances from one low-income country to another probably help to
   cut poverty. A 2006 study of 4,700 households by the Southern African
   Migration Project found that 40% of Zimbabwean households received
   some money from this source. How much is hard to measure, but a World
   Bank estimate for 2006 gives a range for remittances among poor
   countries of $17 billion-55 billion.

   Some middle-income countries are extraordinarily welcoming. Venezuela,
   awash with oil revenues, even allows Colombians to use its
   social-welfare system. Argentina has lifted most restrictions on
   immigration from South America, again guaranteeing access to public
   health and education, even for illegal migrants. But many other
   countries show signs of xenophobia. On one occasion a newspaper in
   Morocco gave warning that "black locusts"--African migrants--were
   invading. Russian authorities, especially in Moscow, regularly throw
   out traders from Georgia and elsewhere in the Caucasus. Libya
   occasionally expels African migrants.

   Many poor people are drawn to somewhat less poor countries in the hope
   of finding work, just as they are to rich countries. But with war,
   repression and economic collapse, push factors are much stronger in
   the poor world. The invasion of Iraq in 2003, and the violence since,
   has uprooted more than 4m Iraqis. Some 95% of them have remained in
   the Middle East, including 2m in hard-pressed Jordan and Syria.
   Sweden, with an admirable history of taking in refugees, has welcomed
   23,600 Iraqis, but few other rich countries have followed suit. Some
   of the displaced are beginning to return home. Since the Taliban were
   booted from power in 2001, Afghanistan has seen the voluntary return
   of at least 3.2m people from Pakistan, Iran and elsewhere.

   Climate of fear

   Could a changing climate cause similarly big ebbs and flows?
   Scientists agree that average temperatures are likely to rise
   significantly by the end of this century. Rainfall patterns are
   already shifting. Those in marginal areas, for example on the edges of
   deserts, will suffer most, along with those in countries with the
   least resources to adapt. The sea is also rising, which might mean
   floods on vulnerable coasts. Some 12% of Africa's urban population,
   and 18% of Asia's, live in low-lying coastal zones and may be exposed
   to extreme weather or floods. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
   Change suggested in 2007 that millions may face water shortages,
   hunger and flooding as a result of climate shifts. Some would migrate,
   although probably over a period of time.

   Environmental change has already set off some migration. Because the
   Sahel region gets much less rain than it did a century ago, farmers in
   Mali are moving to the cities. According to the UN Environment
   Programme, over the past four decades the desert in Sudan has crept
   south by about 100km and forests have disappeared. Rainfall in north
   Darfur, in Sudan, has dropped by a third over the past 80 years.

   All this has displaced people and, some believe, encouraged war.
   Morocco's government is anxious about it. "There is a direct impact on
   migration. You see people leaving sub-Saharan Africa in search of more
   habitable land," says Mr Ameur, the minister for Moroccans abroad.
   Abdelhay Moudden, a migration expert in Rabat, suggests that the first
   to leave may be struggling farmers: "If the urban economy cannot
   absorb them, then it may also push international migration."

   A 2005 report by the Institute for Environment and Human Security in
   Bonn suggested that rising seas and extreme weather, among other
   things, could uproot 150m people by 2050. Ms Newland of the Migration
   Policy Institute cautions against talking up the figures, but thinks
   that if drought and rising temperatures cause crop yields to fall in,
   say, the Sahel, they will probably encourage migration. If climate
   change were to cause wars or spread disease, that could compound the
   effects. Another reason, then, to switch to low-energy light bulbs.


   Offshore technology: Rising costs and clever kit are transforming the
   oil platform--and could even do away with it altogether 

   FROM the helipad on top of the Alwyn North oil and gas platform, the
   horizon looks crowded. The massive structure stands in the middle of
   the North Sea, miles from land, but it is far from isolated. Another
   20-odd platforms are visible, plus several drilling rigs, not to
   mention all the ships and helicopters carting staff and supplies
   around. Waters that look featureless and deserted on the map turn out
   to be littered with teeming settlements.

                                                                    Alamy

                                   Alamy

                           An endangered species?

   All this activity comes at tremendous cost. Total, the oil giant that
   owns Alwyn North, spent £1.5 billion ($2.4 billion) to build it back
   in the mid-1980s. It has since spent around £700m on improvements, and
   plans to spend £150m more. And Alwyn North is just one of 435
   platforms in the British portion of the North Sea.

   Then there are running costs. Up to 300 people live on the platform at
   a time, but keeping it fully manned involves more than twice that
   figure, since most staff get three weeks off for every two that they
   work. Simply flying them all from Aberdeen to the platform costs about
   £1,000 per person per trip. (Aberdeen boasts the world's busiest
   civilian heliport, thanks to all the offshore traffic.) Food and other
   supplies are brought in by boat. Another vessel is kept on standby
   near the platform all the time, in case of emergency. Generators and
   desalinators run around the clock to provide power and drinking water.

   According to Oil and Gas UK, an industry group, oil firms spent over
   £11 billion last year building and running offshore facilities in
   British waters. That puts production costs, at $22 per barrel, among
   the highest in the world. And they are rising rapidly. Deutsche Bank
   estimates that inflation in the oil business has run at 30% a year
   over the past two years, and will continue to rise by at least 15% a
   year this year and next.

   No wonder, then, that firms are determined to reduce the expense of
   producing oil at sea, in the North Sea and elsewhere. One of the
   simplest ways to cut costs is to minimise the number of people working
   on platforms and increase their productivity with the help of modern
   communications. Alwyn North is connected to the mainland by
   fibre-optic cable. That allows geologists onshore to analyse data from
   drilling as it occurs, suggest adjustments and design future drilling
   plans without ever leaving their offices. It also provides continuity
   between shifts: Jon Starkebye of IBM, a computer giant that provides
   services to oil companies, notes that a platform's output can fall by
   as much as 7% during hand-overs between different teams.

   With access to more powerful computers onshore, firms can crunch more
   numbers and so model more accurately what is going on in their fields.
   That allows them to anticipate and pre-empt the intrusion of water
   into their wells, say, or the failure of equipment. Such techniques
   have enabled Statoil, a Norwegian oil firm, to stretch out the period
   between shutdowns for repairs at one field from 750 hours to 4,000,
   and to reduce the annual hours of engineering work at another from
   20,000 to 6,000.

   These efficiencies, in turn, permit much smaller crews: whereas a
   typical older platform needed 100 workers, new ones can make do with
   as few as 29, says Adolfo Henriquez, who is in charge of disseminating
   such "integrated operations" through the firm. Adopting similar
   techniques at all of Norway's offshore fields would yield an extra 250
   billion Norwegian kroner ($43.6 billion) in revenues, according to a
   study published last year by the local oil-industry association.

   Another way for firms operating offshore to economise is by developing
   multiple fields from a single platform. Oil platforms used to stand
   directly above the fields they drilled, as Alwyn North does over the
   oil and gas deposits of the same name. But Total has since discovered
   several other pockets of hydrocarbons nearby. The closest ones can be
   tapped from the platform, since it is now possible to drill sideways
   as well as up and down: a total of 20 wells snake out from Alwyn North
   in different directions. Earlier this year, Exxon Mobil broke the
   record for this sort of long-distance drilling with a well over 11km
   (7 miles) long.

   Even more distant fields can be "tied back" to a platform using
   pipelines along the sea floor. In a tie-back, the valves that open and
   close the well are located not on the rig, but on the sea floor;
   engineers operate them by remote control. Several deposits of oil and
   gas, including Nuggets, a cluster of gas fields over 40km away, are
   linked to Alwyn North in this way. Next, Total plans to connect a new
   discovery called Jura to the platform. As a result the lifespan of
   Alwyn North, estimated at 10 years when it first started production in
   1987, has been extended to over 40 years, while its projected output
   has almost quadrupled.

   The next logical step is to put more equipment underwater, in the hope
   of dispensing with platforms altogether. Statoil, for example, is
   tapping a gas field called Snohvit, which lies 143km offshore, without
   using a platform. But this is possible only because the pressure of
   the field is strong enough to keep the gas flowing through the long
   pipeline back to shore. Norsk Hydro, another Norwegian energy firm on
   the verge of merging with Statoil, has developed another gas field,
   Ormen Lange, in the same way. But in a few years a compressor that can
   work underwater will be needed to supplement the falling pressure in
   the field. Last year, Norsk Hydro hired General Electric (GE), an
   American industrial giant, to build a prototype. "Fifteen years from
   now," says Claudi Santiago of GE, "the vision is that offshore
   platforms will disappear."

   Or maybe not. If some way can be found to liquefy gas offshore, Mr
   Santiago points out, then deposits that are currently too remote for
   the construction of pipelines could be developed, and the gas
   transported in liquid form by ship instead. That would give offshore
   platforms a whole new lease on life.


   Britain's immigration regime, long one of Europe's most liberal, is to
   tighten up. Will it secure the jobs of British workers--or those of
   MPs?

                                                           Report Digital

                               Report Digital


   DURING dull moments in the office, British workers may while away the
   time looking at the website of Australia's immigration department and
   daydreaming about life down under. Every two years the agency updates
   its list of the skills the country wants to import: if yours comes up,
   and you are suitably young and qualified, you may be awarded enough
   points for a passport to warmer climes.

   From March, Britain's government will begin to roll out its own
   "Australian-style" points-based immigration system for workers from
   outside the European Union, looking at education, earnings, age,
   command of English and other factors. One reason is to simplify
   matters: the new system will replace more than 80 different ways of
   coming to work in Britain with five tiers. Another reason, ministers
   say, is to make sure that Britain receives only the migrant workers it
   needs. Alongside a battery of other recently announced changes--from
   citizenship tests through higher age limits for foreign brides to a
   new border police force--the points system is the centrepiece of what
   the government calls the biggest ever change to Britain's immigration
   system.

   They dub it thus with one eye on the polls, for immigration is voters'
   single biggest worry these days. In November a survey by Ipsos MORI
   found 72% of people unhappy with the government's handling of the
   matter. Immigration is seldom off the agenda in any country, as our
   [4]special report this week makes clear, but things are especially
   acute in Britain. With immigration running at its highest rate in
   decades, 68% of people say they think "there are too many immigrants
   in Britain"--the highest proportion in almost 20 years--though 48%
   still believe "immigration is generally good for Britain". Local
   councils complain of inadequate resources to deal with newcomers. Home
   Office gaffes, the repeatedly revealed inadequacies of official
   statistics and underlying fear of Islamist terrorism all stoke unease.

   As Britain's economy predictably cools, the argument over immigration
   will come down increasingly to the question of jobs. No one disputes
   that immigrants have spurred economic growth, though it is less clear
   that they have boosted growth per person. The recent wave of Poles,
   Lithuanians and others from new members of the European Union--mainly
   young, white, healthy and willing to tackle hard-to-fill jobs from
   plumbing to care work--have blended in more easily than most. Danny
   Sriskandarajah of the Institute for Public Policy Research, a
   think-tank, points out that foreign workers have generally been
   drafted in only when the domestic labour market has been tight (see
   chart).

   Yet there is evidence that migrant workers have exerted downward
   pressure on wages in some low-skilled sectors. And in an economy where
   a stubbornly high proportion of young people are not in education,
   work or training, easily employable foreign workers can seem a menace.
   Gordon Brown, the prime minister, recently promised more "British jobs
   for British workers", only to be embarrassed by the subsequent
   revelation that 1.5m of the 2.7m new jobs created in Britain over the
   past ten years had gone to foreign workers.

   The government's vaunted new toughness on immigration is an attempt to
   convince the public that it can prevent migrants from edging young
   Britons out of their own labour market. Yet according to John Salt of
   University College, London, fewer than 40% of migrant workers will be
   covered by the new points regime. Those from the EU--with the
   exception of Romania and Bulgaria, for now--can work as they please
   around Europe.

   Of those that are covered, highly-qualified young people on big
   salaries will have the easiest passage, being allowed in even without
   a job offer; medium-skilled workers will have to hunt around more
   carefully for points, unless their profession is deemed particularly
   in demand by a new council of economists. Low-skilled workers assigned
   to a third tier (again, only those from outside Europe) will be shut
   out, for the time being at least. Two remaining tiers will serve
   students and short-term workers such as pint-pulling backpackers.
   Ministers will be able to move points thresholds up and down according
   to what they, advised by assorted wise men, think is in the national
   interest. A possible next step, already advocated by the
   Conservatives, is annual quotas.

   Britain's skilled workforce is unlikely to change radically. The
   "gold-collar" workers who make the City of London tick should have
   little difficulty making it into Tier 1, under which any graduate
   earning more than £40,000 ($80,000) a year is expected to be admitted
   with few questions asked. And those who are coming in on internal
   transfers within their firms will face relaxed criteria, points out Mr
   Salt. In some industries this will make a big difference: some 80% of
   IT work permits, for example, go to such transferees.

   The biggest impact is likely to be on low-skilled workers such as the
   Ukrainians who pick fruit in Lincolnshire or Bangladeshis dishing up
   curry in London. Their sole route of entry--Tier 3--will be opened up
   only if there is a sudden need for such workers (to complete
   last-minute Olympic building, for instance, or to shore up care
   homes).

   Keeping out the unqualified to improve Britain's skills base may sound
   sensible, but it raises the question of who will do the jobs that
   require little more than willingness. Soon all Britons will have to
   stay in education or training until the age of 18, after which
   strawberry-picking would be a disappointing career. Britain reckons on
   filling the gap through an endless stream of workers from new EU
   states. But many overqualified Poles who have proved enthusiastic
   pickers of cabbages are already ditching agricultural hard labour in
   favour of bar-tending and the like in the cities. Fewer migrants will
   come in the first place, or stay, as their home countries get richer:
   wealthy Slovenia, for example, has sent hardly anyone to Britain. And
   other rich EU countries may soon seek to lure them.

   When these sources run dry there remain Bulgaria and Romania--and
   perhaps, one day, Turkey. But Britain may need to look beyond Europe
   sooner than it thinks. The economy has a seemingly insatiable appetite
   for foreign labour; and having grossly underestimated future numbers
   of eastern European workers a few years ago, the government would be
   embarrassed by overestimating them now.


   Regret and relief as British soldiers lose hope in Iraq

   THE biggest success of Britain's unhappy four-year occupation of Basra
   was its final departure from the city. Under cover of darkness, the
   500-odd men of the 4 Rifles Battlegroup rumbled out of Basra Palace in
   their armoured vehicles on September 2nd with hardly a shot fired or
   bomb detonated.

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                                    Under new management 

   The soldiers, who had been under almost daily attack, were formally
   "repositioned" to the airport a few miles away. Britain would honour
   its "obligations" in Iraq, said Gordon Brown, the prime minister. But
   after losing some 170 soldiers there, the army knows it is on its way
   out. The question is when it will leave for good.

   Mr Brown will have more to say on the subject in October. His aim will
   be to distance himself from the unpopular war in Iraq without
   undermining fatally his relationship with the Bush administration. The
   betting is that he will keep the current 5,000 troops in Iraq until
   the spring, and then draw them down to about 3,000.

   Based at the airport, the troops will maintain the headquarters and
   logistical support for allied forces in south-eastern Iraq, as well as
   providing special forces to fight alongside the Americans farther
   north. Britain is also supposed to protect southern supply routes and
   maintain "overwatch" for Iraqi forces--training and armed
   back-up--after it hands over control of Basra province later in the
   autumn. In practice, though, the British have no permanent presence on
   so-called "Route Tampa" from Kuwait to Baghdad, and prefer to stay out
   of the way of American convoys. They will do everything to avoid
   having to shoot their way back into Basra.

   Apart from defending themselves from rocket and mortar attacks at the
   airport, the main concern of the British army will be to preserve its
   public image, fending off accusations that it has failed and is
   betraying its allies by leaving. Britain says, with much wishful
   thinking, that Iraqi forces are now able to take charge of security.
   That contention seemed to hold this week as Basra went quiet.
   Lieutenant-Colonel Patrick Sanders, the commander of the 4 Rifles
   Battlegroup, said that 90% of the violence in Basra had been directed
   at the British. Senior officers wonder whether the army chief, General
   Sir Richard Dannatt, was right when he said last year that the British
   had become part of the problem.

   Even if he is right, Britain seems to be at cross-purposes with
   America, which has increased its troops in Baghdad. The loudest
   American critics of Britain are the strongest advocates of the
   "surge", such as retired General Jack Keane. He claims American
   officers are frustrated by Britain's "general disengagement" from
   Basra. Pentagon officials say they accept with misgivings Britain's
   withdrawal, but worry about Mr Brown's intentions.

   They are not alone. Australian and other allied forces in southern
   Iraq fear they may be left in the lurch. Some Australian commanders
   draw comparisons with the fiasco of the British-led assault (and later
   retreat) at Gallipoli in the first world war. They are joking, but the
   British army's reputation for counter-insurgency warfare has been
   damaged. And it was just a few years ago that British soldiers
   patrolling Basra in soft berets mocked the Americans for staying in
   their armoured vehicles.

   The British console themselves with the thought that the real fault
   lies with America and its "intellectually bankrupt" post-war strategy,
   as their former army chief, General Sir Mike Jackson, calls it in a
   new book. And the army is still up for the fight in Afghanistan, where
   more troops may be sent. If that effort also ends in failure, however,
   the army will find it hard to shift the blame to anyone else.


   In addition to those mentioned in the text, the author would like to
   thank: Alan Winters of the World Bank; Peter Sutherland of the Global
   Forum on Migration and Development; Sarah Wilson of Christian Aid;
   congressman Ed Perlmutter of Colorado; William Somerville, Doris
   Meissner, Margie McHugh and Michael Fix of the Migration Policy
   Institute; Michael Friel, Vince Bond, Dove Haber and Richard Smith of
   the US Border Patrol; Jorgen Carling of the International Peace
   Research Institute, Oslo; Louka Katseli, formerly of the OECD;
   Binyamin Smith (not his real name) of Ethiopia; Abraham Hailezgi of
   Somalia; Panagiotis Tsiafidis and Stavridopoulos Thrasivoulos of
   Greece; Alicia St Leger of Cobh, Ireland; Mohammed Benjaber, Youssef
   Amrani, Amina Bouayach, Fadlallah Mohammed Fellat and Fehri Nouredine
   of Morocco; and Sally Peberdy of the Southern African Migration
   Project.

   Books and reports

   "[3]Global Migration and the World Economy; Two Centuries of Policy
   and Performance", Timothy Hatton and Geffrey Williamson. MIT Press,
   Cambridge. 2005.

   [4]International Migration Outlook, OECD, 2007 Edition.

   "[5]Immigrants: Your Country Needs Them", Philippe Legrain. Little
   Brown. 2006.

   "[6]Illicit: How Smugglers, Traffickers and Copycats are Hijacking the
   Global Economy", Moisés Naim. Random House. 2005.

   "[7]Immigration Under New Labour", Will Somerville. Policy Press,
   University of Bristol. 2007.

   Think-tanks and websites

   [8]Centre for Immigration Studies

   [9]NumbersUSA

   [10]Migrationwatch UK

   [11]Migration Policy Institute

   [12]Hellenic Migration Policy Institute

   [13]Centre on Migration Policy and Society

   [14]Christian Aid (on climate change and migration)

   [15]SendMoneyHome (remittance advice)

   [16]Southern African Migration Project

   [17]Philippe Legrain's blog


   Vaccines may prevent an epidemic. They may also have caused this
   outbreak

   BRITONS' most searing memories of their encounter with foot-and-mouth
   disease in 2001 are of the piles of animals slaughtered to try to stop
   its spread. Such a draconian policy might have been accepted had the
   disease been controlled quickly. But its ineffectiveness--more than 6m
   cows, sheep and pigs were culled before the disease was
   eradicated--led to widespread revulsion and a government rethink.

   Just as in 2001, if an animal is thought to be infected, its herd will
   be culled and a quarantine zone set up (see map). But this time,
   unless the disease is stamped out quickly, animals nearby will also be
   vaccinated to create a "fire-break" across which it is unlikely to
   travel. Already 300,000 doses of vaccine have been ordered, so that if
   government vets decide that slaughter alone is unlikely to be
   effective, they can start vaccinating straight away.

   Humans almost never catch foot-and-mouth and it rarely kills the
   cloven-hooved beasts it affects. But animals produce less milk and
   meat, so its economic effects are severe. It is also highly
   contagious: infected livestock produce the virus that causes it in
   large quantities, and transmit it through saliva, mucus, milk, faeces
   and even droplets in their breath.

   Even so, only countries where foot-and-mouth is endemic, as in parts
   of Latin America, vaccinate all animals. One reason is cost: the
   disease is caused by a virus with seven main types and tens of
   sub-types, with a targeted vaccine needed for each strain and shots
   repeated, perhaps as often as twice a year. It is also because
   vaccinating damages exports. Places that are free from foot-and-mouth
   are unwilling to import vaccinated beasts, or fresh meat from them,
   because they may still carry the disease.

   The fear of being shut out of foreign markets led to the British
   government's disastrous foot-dragging over vaccination in 2001. But
   that same year an outbreak in the Netherlands involving 26 farms was
   brought under control in just one month by vaccinating 200,000
   animals. Though healthy, these beasts then had to be culled so that
   farmers could return to exporting without restrictions as soon as
   possible.

   Not even eternal vigilance on imports can keep a country free of
   foot-and-mouth disease: the latest outbreak was apparently caused by a
   breach of bio-security at the Pirbright laboratory complex in Surrey,
   where government researchers keep the live virus for vaccine research
   and Merial, an American animal-health company, manufactures vaccine
   for export. Human action, accidental or deliberate, seems likely to
   have been involved.

   Ironically, one reason for eschewing vaccination is that although it
   provides the best hope of dealing with outbreaks, maintaining the
   capacity to produce vaccine is itself a risky business. Many earlier
   episodes of foot-and-mouth in countries normally free from the disease
   have been caused by laboratory escapes; in 1970 a leak from
   Pirbright's isolation facilities was fortunately contained.


   Collapsing markets suggest a mini-subprime crisis in the making


   FROM up high, London is a picture of vigorous renewal. In just about
   every direction, construction cranes point contemplatively to the
   skies. They also point to the great boom that has taken place in
   commercial property in recent years. The collapse of that boom, which
   now threatens to slash the values of these gleaming office towers and
   destroy the savings of millions, may pose almost as great a threat to
   Britain's banking system as the subprime crisis that has been roiling
   financial markets since late in 2007.

   Bubbles are most easily seen with hindsight, but this one was in plain
   view even as it inflated. In 2004 and 2005 British office prices rose
   at an average rate of 10% a year before jumping 17% in 2006, according
   to IPD, a data provider. Rental yields fell, meanwhile, to below the
   cost of borrowing in late 2006. By the middle of last year, with rents
   rising and buildings bursting at their seams, frenzied buying had
   pushed up prices and widened the gap between yields and borrowing
   costs to 1.7 percentage points.

   Developers, too, overcame their caution at just the wrong moment. Many
   had burnt their fingers on speculative towers in the 1990s. So for the
   first half of this decade, few landlords started pouring foundations
   until they had signed up elevator-loads of dependable tenants.

   Yet, with the impeccably bad timing the industry is known for,
   construction boomed just as the market was peaking. CB Richard Ellis,
   a consultancy, reckons that new offices are being built in London at
   their fastest rate in nearly two decades. Most of the ones going up
   this year have yet to find tenants (see chart), and not all will, for
   the freeze in credit markets has spread to City payrolls. Law firms
   stopped hiring in the third quarter of last year, and banks are sure
   to do the same soon.

   Rents in London's financial district, which CBRE says rose by 22% in
   the 12 months to the end of September 2007, will probably fall by
   about 5% this year, according to John Fraser-Andrews of HSBC, a bank.
   And although a decline in commercial-property prices was inevitable,
   its ferocity has taken many by surprise. In November the value of
   commercial properties dipped by about 4%, their largest monthly drop
   on record. CBRE reckons that commercial properties are worth about 9%
   less now than they were at their peak in July. Capital Economics, a
   consultancy, thinks their value may have slipped by some 15%.

   Yet even so prices may have a long way to fall. Tim Bond of Barclays
   Bank says the derivatives markets are forecasting the biggest collapse
   in commercial-property prices since the second world war--a fall of up
   to 30% over the next three years. In 1989-92, when property last took
   a tremendous tumble, values plunged by about 27%, according to the
   Bank of England.

   Such a fall could wreak havoc on Britain's banks, which are already
   smarting from losses on investments backed by mortgage loans in
   America to borrowers with spotty credit records (subprime loans). The
   Bank of England frets that by the end of the third quarter British
   bank loans to commercial-property companies had increased to £186
   billion, or about 9% of domestic lending. This is a higher proportion
   than during the last big bust, when collapsing property prices
   contributed to the closure or failure of 25 small banks and helped
   cause an economic downturn.

   The European Central Bank, meanwhile, worries about the proliferation
   of credit derivatives and securities backed by mortgages on commercial
   properties in Britain and America. These, says Ian Harnett of Absolute
   Strategy Research, a consultancy, may end up posing as great a risk to
   the financial system as securities based on American subprime
   residential mortgages, which brought the world's financial system to
   its knees in August.

   Others are more sanguine, mainly because, however much banks have lent
   to commercial-property firms, they have handed out still more to
   homeowners. Mr Bond, for instance, thinks that the fall in property
   prices in Britain may force banks to write off 2-3% of the value of
   their commercial-property loans over the next few years. At worst, he
   says, the meltdown in that market will cause only about a quarter as
   much damage as defaults on bad residential mortgages. Not really a
   comforting thought.


   Big price rises raise questions about how the market works

   HANGOVER at new year is in the grand tradition, but this year
   consumers' heads (and wallets) are hurting more than normal. On
   January 4th npower, a British electricity and gas firm owned by
   Germany's RWE, announced big increases in its household-energy
   tariffs. Electricity prices for its customers rose by an average of
   12.7%; natural-gas prices by 17.2%. The averages disguised a much
   wider range--rises for some customers were as high as 27%, supposedly
   because it costs more to transport gas to some parts of the country.
   Other suppliers are now muttering about price hikes of their own.

   Npower (and other energy firms) offer a simple explanation: gas is
   expensive because oil is expensive, driven by production difficulties,
   dwindling reserves and insatiable demand from the rapidly growing
   economies of India and China. Electricity prices, in turn, follow gas
   prices, because about 40% of Britain's power plants are gas-fired. Add
   in the rising cost of meeting energy-efficiency targets, and the
   increasing proportion of energy that must by law come from expensive
   renewable sources, and price rises are inevitable.

   But high oil prices may not be the whole story. Allan Asher, the head
   of Energywatch, a consumer watchdog, argues that the real problem is
   the malfunctioning of Britain's vaunted liberalised energy markets. He
   points out that the number of suppliers has dwindled from more than 20
   a decade ago to just six now, and that today's firms are vertically
   integrated to a great degree. Opaque markets and jealous incumbents
   make entering the domestic energy business difficult, and continental
   Europe's fondness for long-term contracts makes it hard for suppliers
   there to respond to price signals elsewhere. The result is volatility:
   even when British prices reach eye-watering levels (as happened in
   each of the previous two winters), gas imports do not increase to
   match, leading to factory closures and, in 2006, fears that
   residential customers might be cut off too.

   For many years ministers have assured the public that Britain's
   markets are working well, pointing to high levels of switching by
   customers and arguing that price is not the only measure of
   competitive performance. But on January 7th Alistair Darling, the
   chancellor, asked for a meeting with Ofgem, the energy regulator, to
   discuss whether consumer energy prices (which have risen steadily
   since 2003) have been responding properly to wholesale prices.

   Regardless of Mr Darling's concern, other official policies mean that
   energy prices are likely to remain high. The government is keen on
   expanding renewable energy and on building a new generation of
   nuclear-power plants to cut carbon emissions (see [3]article). But
   windmills and atomic reactors are expensive, and the only way they can
   compete with fossil fuels is through subsidies or higher energy prices
   that reflect the full cost of emitting carbon. Either way, consumers
   will foot the bills.


   Healing those who harm themselves


   IT IS unpleasant to reflect that we will all perish one day--and even
   worse to suspect that the health service meant to look after us may
   have a hand in our demise. But that is what many Britons fear.
   Outbreaks of hospital-acquired infections such as MRSA and C.
   difficile, and stories of women in labour without a midwife and old
   folk unwashed and unfed, make admission to hospital seem like a game
   of Russian roulette. Meanwhile, rulings by the National Institute for
   Health and Clinical Excellence, which has the power to decide which
   medical treatments offer sufficiently good value that they should be
   paid for by the NHS, guarantee a stream of headlines about how ailing
   Britons are denied treatments that are standard abroad.

   Challenging this perception that the NHS is likely to fail voters in
   their hour of need was, presumably, the reason why the prime minister,
   Gordon Brown, joined the health secretary, Alan Johnson, for the
   announcement on December 3rd of a new national cancer strategy. This
   committed an extra £370m over the next five years to spotting cancers
   earlier and ensuring better treatment for those who develop the
   disease. More radiotherapy equipment and staff will account for £200m;
   and breast, cervical and bowel screening programmes will be expanded.

   The main thrust of the plan, though, was to improve prevention rather
   than cure. Over half of all cancers could be prevented by changes to
   lifestyle, it says. Cigarette-vending machines and coin-operated
   sunbeds face curbs in an attempt to make it harder for youngsters to
   smoke or fry themselves to a melanoma-inducing crisp. And from 2008
   schoolgirls will be vaccinated against HPV, a virus implicated in 70%
   of cases of cervical cancer.

   Smoking, drinking and obesity are the big culprits; all are hard to
   change, but the government will keep on trying. More graphic warnings
   on cigarette packets, and an advertising campaign to teach people how
   to keep track of the amount they drink, may have a positive, if
   limited, impact on the first two. But a "cross-government strategy to
   tackle obesity", to be published "shortly", looks like an admission
   that no one knows how to tackle the third.

   Behind all this activity is a nagging feeling that Britain is not
   getting good value for the money it has put into cancer care. By
   international standards, mortality rates from the disease are middling
   (see chart), although the high numbers of British women who smoked in
   the 1980s and 1990s pushed up the incidence of lung cancer.
   Improvements in survival rates only show up many years later, of
   course. But the most recent figures, which indicate how many of those
   whose cancers were diagnosed before 2002 were alive five years later,
   suggest that Britons fare worse overall than most other Europeans.
   Survival rates were highest in the Nordic countries (except Denmark)
   and lower than average in Britain. In general, countries that spent
   more fared better; but Britain had lower survival rates than other
   countries with similar expenditure.

   Just two days after the new cancer strategy was unveiled, another
   national plan, this time for preventing and dealing with strokes,
   joined it. (Mr Johnson was allowed to handle this one without his boss
   by his side; not for nothing is stroke known as the silent killer.)
   The plan offers brave words about preventing 20,000 strokes a year by
   promoting healthy living and prescribing statins more widely. And
   those patients who have minor strokes are to be guaranteed an MRI scan
   within a week (only 35% of centres manage this at present), or within
   a day if they are at high risk of suffering a full-blown stroke. The
   Department of Health reckons this could reduce by four-fifths the
   number of people who go on to have a more serious stroke.

   Sandwiched between the two plans was a worrying report on maternal
   mortality, which is still low in Britain, but is rising. The report
   from the confidential inquiry into maternal deaths condemned poor
   standards of care, but also found that, of 295 women who died while
   giving birth between 2003 and 2005, half were overweight and 15% were
   very obese. Another reminder that, whereas patients hope the NHS will
   look after them, the NHS needs them to look after themselves.


   As the internet becomes intertwined with the real world, the resulting
   "geoweb" has many uses

   "EARTH materialises, rotating majestically in front of his face. Hiro
   reaches out and grabs it. He twists it around so he's looking at
   Oregon. Tells it to get rid of the clouds, and it does, giving him a
   crystalline view of the mountains and the seashore."

   That vision from Neal Stephenson's "Snow Crash", a science-fiction
   novel published in 1992, aptly describes Google Earth, a computer
   program that lets users fly over a detailed photographic map of the
   world. Other information, such as roads, borders and the locations of
   coffee shops can be draped on to the view, which can be panned,
   rotated, tilted and zoomed with almost seamless continuity. First-time
   users often report an exhilarating revelatory pang as they realise
   what the software can do. As the globe spins and switches from one
   viewpoint to another, it can even induce vertigo.

   Google's virtual globe incorporates elevation data that describe
   surface features such as mountains and valleys. Other data is then
   overlaid on it, notably a patchwork of satellite imagery and aerial
   photography licensed from several public and private providers. The
   entire planet is covered, with around one-third of all land depicted
   in such detail that individual trees and cars, and the homes of 3
   billion people, can be seen. All this has long been imaginable but has
   become possible only recently, thanks to high-resolution commercial
   satellite imaging, broadband links and cheap, powerful computers.

   Keyhole, an American firm, released the first commercial "geobrowser"
   in 2001. Google bought Keyhole in 2004 and launched Google Earth in
   2005. Its basic, free version has since been downloaded over 250m
   times, says Michael Jones, one of Keyhole's founders and now Google
   Earth's chief technologist.

   In 2004 America's space agency, NASA, released another geobrowser,
   called World Wind. More than 20m copies are in use. But Google's main
   geobrowsing rival is Microsoft. Both Encarta, Microsoft's
   encyclopedia, and TerraServer, a database demonstration project, had
   geobrowser-like features in the 1990s. At the end of 2005 Microsoft
   bought GeoTango, which contributed to the development of Live Search
   Maps, a web-based geobrowser that uses data from Virtual Earth,
   Microsoft's digital model of the planet. (Google also provides a
   web-based geobrowser via Google Maps.)

    An overlay shows desroyed villages in Darfur; sunbakers on Sydney's
        Bondi Beach; the city of Berlin, with detailed 3-D buildings

   Vincent Tao, GeoTango's founder and now director of Virtual Earth for
   Microsoft, allows that Microsoft has spent at the "couple of hundreds
   of millions of dollars level" on Virtual Earth. Most of that has been
   spent on the acquisition of imagery, which now totals 14 petabytes on
   900 servers. (One petabyte is 1m gigabytes.) The company is also
   adding detail in the form of textured three-dimensional models of
   cities devised from aerial photographs; ten cities are added each
   month.

   For its part, Google is relying on "crowdsourcing"--enlisting its
   users to build and contribute images, 3-D models of buildings and
   other data to enrich its digital planet. So far 850,000 users have
   contributed millions of annotations and more than 1m images, vetting
   one another's contributions. Wikipedia, which uses a similar system,
   is itself available through Google Earth. Users can read Wikipedia
   articles placed on the globe using "geotags"--spatial co-ordinates
   encoded into each entry. Other sites including Flickr, the leading
   photo-sharing site, and Google's YouTube, also support geotags.

   These virtual globes are being put to an unexpected range of uses.
   Google Earth was used to co-ordinate relief efforts in New Orleans in
   the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Tax inspectors in Buenos
   Aires are using it to see whether people are correctly reporting the
   size of their properties. An Italian programmer who was using the
   software noticed odd markings on the ground near his home town which
   turned out to be a previously unknown Roman villa. Roofers, landscape
   gardeners and solar-panel installers use the virtual maps to scout for
   potential customers. Rebecca Moore, a member of the Google Earth team,
   used the software to galvanise her neighbourhood in the Santa Cruz
   mountains in opposition to a nearby logging project. And the Amazon
   Conservation Team, an American charity, equipped 26 indigenous tribes
   in the Amazon with hand-held global positioning system units and
   computers running Google Earth, to enable them to assert their legal
   sovereignty in the face of threats from loggers and miners.

   "It's turning into a map of historical significance," says John Hanke,
   head of Google's Earth and Maps division, and another of Keyhole's
   founders. "It is going to be a map of the world that is more detailed
   than any map that's ever been created." He may be understating the
   technology's importance.

   The world-wired web

   Geobrowsers are a stunningly effective means of visualising the
   planet. But they are just one part of a broader endeavour, the
   construction of a "geoweb" that is still in its infancy, much as the
   world wide web was in the mid-1990s. The web did away with many
   geographical constraints, enabling people with common interests to
   communicate, regardless of location. Yet placelessness jettisons some
   of the most useful features of information, which are now attracting
   new attention.

   At present the most feverish excitement surrounds the combination of
   virtual maps with other sources of data in "mash-ups". One of the
   earliest examples, housingmaps.com, created in 2005, combines San
   Francisco apartment listings from [3]Craigslist.org with Google Maps.
   Mash-ups have since become commonplace--Google says its maps are used
   in more than 4m of them. In April the company added features to Google
   Maps to make it easier to create mash-ups. Microsoft is at work on a
   similar tool. Another site, [4]platial.com, provides free mash-up
   tools for bloggers, spawning a new genre in self-absorption:
   autobiogeography.

   The geoweb has obvious appeal to those in the property business.
   [5]Zillow.com mashes Microsoft's Virtual Earth with other data to
   create maps of home prices in America. But property is just the start.
   At [6]gasbuddy.com, visitors can map local petrol prices to plan
   fill-ups. [7]ExploreOurPla.net brings together thousands of sources of
   images and data to let users investigate climate change.

   House prices overlaid on a satellite map at Zillow.com; San Francisco,
       seen on Google's Street View; a GIS view of an air-force base

   These examples illustrate the emerging architecture of the geoweb:
   data, such as information on traffic jams or seismic tremors, is
   hosted separately from the images and models of the geobrowser, which
   assembles, combines and displays the information in new ways.
   [8]GeoCommons.com hosts data, from crime rates to melanoma statistics,
   that can be combined to create colour-coded "heat maps" of intangibles
   such as "hipness". Visitors to [9]Heywhatsthat.com can generate a
   diagram of the view from any high spot to see the names of visible
   mountain peaks.

   Here the neogeographers, as mash-up enthusiasts are known, have
   crossed into the terrain of "geographic information systems" (GIS),
   the fancy software tools that are used by governments and companies to
   analyse spatial data. Geobrowsers are still quite primitive by
   comparison, but are much easier to use. For its part GIS deals with
   critical infrastructure, so its data tend to be of impeccable quality.
   Jack Dangermond, the founder of ESRI, a private firm that dominates
   the GIS market, says interest stimulated by the geoweb has helped to
   boost business by 20% this year. Ron Lake of Galdos Systems, a firm
   that specialises in integrating civic geodata, says geobrowsers have
   led to a push for better public access to such data.

   When the analytical insights and data quality of GIS are combined with
   the geoweb's visualisation and networking prowess, startling
   efficiencies emerge. Last year Waterstone, a consultancy, assembled
   the geodata for 13 American air-force bases and wrapped them up in a
   modified version of NASA's World Wind geobrowser. This makes it
   possible to walk through a 3-D model of each base and call up multiple
   layers of data. A project manager can view live video from a
   construction site and identify the contractors and their vehicles. A
   planner can assess a proposed building's effect on runway visibility.
   And an environmental engineer, while viewing a plume of contaminated
   groundwater, can delve into 45 years' worth of documents associated
   with the site. Carla Johnson, Waterstone's boss, says the project cost
   less than $1m and is expected to save the air force around $5m a year
   through faster decision-making.

   Smile, you're on Google Earth

   Like any technology, the geoweb has both good and bad uses. When
   geobrowsers first introduced easy access to satellite imagery,
   something that had previously only been available to intelligence
   agencies, many observers worried that terrorists might use such images
   to plan attacks. Google Earth seems to have been used in this way by
   Iraqi insurgents planning attacks on a British base in the city of
   Basra, for example, in which individual buildings and vehicles can be
   clearly seen. After this came to light in January, the images of the
   area in question were replaced with images from 2002, predating the
   construction of the camp.

   This summer a member of the Assembly of the State of New York called
   on Google to obscure imagery after the geobrowser was used by plotters
   in a foiled airport attack. Yet Mr Jones says Google has been formally
   contacted by governments in this regard only three times (including by
   India and by an unspecified European country), and that in each case
   the issue was resolved without making changes to the imagery in Google
   Earth.

   Although some buildings or areas are blurred for security reasons,
   Google says this is done by the firms from which it licenses the
   imagery. Microsoft says it blurs photos in response to "legitimate
   government and agency requests". But the images are typically between
   six months and three years old, which limits their tactical
   usefulness; and satellite and aerial images are available from many
   other sources, and have been for some time. So in some respects,
   geobrowsers have not made possible anything that was not possible
   before--they have just made access to such images much cheaper and
   easier.

   "It's a question of the policy and the thinking catching up with the
   technology," says Mr Hanke. "Ease of access alters the debate." Google
   insists that it takes security concerns very seriously, and points out
   that the American government's official position is that the benefits
   of making satellite images widely available outweigh the risks.
   Indeed, some jurisdictions are embracing the exposure. The Canary
   Islands have donated high-resolution imagery to Google in the hope
   that virtual visitors might become real tourists, and the city of
   Berlin has made its painstakingly detailed digital models available
   through Google Earth.

   For governments that are used to hiding things from each other's spy
   satellites, the advent of the geobrowsers does not change things very
   much. Ordinary members of the public can now call up images of Chinese
   nuclear submarines via Google Earth, but intelligence agencies around
   the world have had access to far more detailed satellite images for
   years. And the fact that the submarines can be seen at all means that
   China is not trying to keep their existence a secret. Even so, armed
   forces do find the geoweb useful. The American military is a big user
   of both World Wind and the enterprise version of Google Earth. And
   some governments do have grounds for concern: the government of Sudan,
   for example, would undoubtedly prefer the United States Holocaust
   Memorial Museum not to highlight destroyed villages in Darfur via an
   overlay in Google Earth.

   Close to home, the geoweb turns out to have implications for personal
   privacy as well as geopolitics. Google's new Street View feature,
   launched in May, lets users of Google Maps move through
   stitched-together street-level imagery of several American cities,
   giving private citizens a taste of "crowdsourced" surveillance. All
   the views are of public streets yet, in aggregate, they challenge
   accepted notions of privacy--especially for those caught doing
   something naughty as Google's specially equipped camera van swoops
   past. Shortly after the feature was launched, users uncovered a car
   getting a ticket from Miami police, a man scaling a locked gate in San
   Francisco and another man entering a shop selling sex toys.

   "When the coverage is everything and everywhere, there is going to be
   a big problem," says Lee Tien, a lawyer at the Electronic Frontier
   Foundation, an internet campaign group. Satellite images are not
   detailed enough to allow individual people or vehicles to be
   identified, but faces and licence plates can be seen in Google's
   Street View. There are few legal precedents. In 2003, Barbra Streisand
   sued to keep her Malibu estate out of an online library of images of
   the California coast. She lost. Although movie stars are more stalked
   than most--several sites provide geobrowser links to celebrities'
   homes--it is easy to imagine innocent annotations that could be
   unintentionally dangerous. Shelters for battered women, for example,
   often prefer not to make their locations widely known.

   Google's Mr Jones believes the benefits are strong enough to overcome
   these concerns. "I think there's a social barrier to everything new,"
   he says. The availability of useful information will outweigh concern
   over surveillance and loss of privacy, he believes. Five or six years
   ago, he notes, people worried about the spread of camera phones. But
   now "everyone just presumes that everybody has a camera on their
   phone--it's nothing special." The lesson of previous technologies, he
   says, is that "we all are happy to tolerate things that would have
   previously been considered intolerable."

   Indeed, all the features--good and bad--of the internet will
   eventually gain new dimensions on the geoweb. Bots and intelligent
   agents will crawl it. It will be populated by avatars, as Second Life
   becomes first life, and it will enable the inverse: telepresent
   machines roaming the real world. Ghostly, private worlds will be
   overlaid on reality, sensitive only to members. The malicious
   possibilities are sobering: location-based viruses, geohacking and,
   worst of all, geospam.

   Despite these concerns, the potential of the geoweb is not lost on
   investors. Since the beginning of last year more than 20 geospatial
   firms have been the targets of mergers and acquisitions, with Google,
   Microsoft and ESRI among the buyers. But it is not quite time to
   declare the dawn of Web 3.0. For one thing, consumer geobrowsing does
   not make any money. Microsoft's Mr Tao says that revenue has to come
   from advertising for now, until critical mass enables location-based
   transactions. Google, true to form, is investing first and worrying
   about revenue later.

   The road to Web 3.0

   A more immediate hurdle is on the verge of resolution. Google recently
   submitted KML, the tagging protocol that describes how objects are
   placed in Google Earth, to the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC), a
   standards body. This will let other firms support it. GML, a protocol
   developed by the OGC to encode spatial-information models, was
   formally adopted as an international standard this year. Standards for
   dynamic geodata, the sharing of 3-D models of buildings and geodata
   from sensor networks ought to be in place by next year. All this will
   ensure interoperability and do for geodata what the web did for other
   forms of data, says Carl Reed, the OGC's chief technologist.

   At the same time, the incorporation of satellite-positioning
   technology into mobile phones and cars could open the floodgates. When
   it is available, simply moving about one's neighbourhood can then be
   tantamount to browsing and generating content without doing anything,
   as demonstrated by a company called Socialight. Its service lets
   mobile users attach notes to any location, to be read by others who
   come along later. Taken further, the result could end up being a sort
   of extrasensory information awareness, annotation and analysis
   capability in the real world. "When that happens", says Mr Jones,
   "then the map is actually a little portal on to life itself." The only
   thing that can hold it back, he believes, is the rate at which society
   can adapt.


   It's not when you imbibe but how much that counts

   VOMIT and broken glass are as much a part of the festive season in
   binge-prone Britain as are crackers and tinsel. This year, though,
   drinkers took the customary bender further than usual. Calls to
   ambulance services in the first four hours of 2008 rose dramatically:
   in London, for example, by 16% on the same period in 2007, and by 30%
   on 2006. Those caught in the crossfire took evasive action: some
   churches held "midnight" mass as early as 6pm on Christmas Eve to
   avoid drunken interruptions; some councils brought forward their New
   Year's Eve firework displays, or cancelled them altogether.

   These excesses did little to convince critics of the licensing-law
   changes in 2005--which allowed pubs to stay open past the old closing
   time of 11pm, even around the clock--that the country is acquiring the
   less sodden, continental-style drinking culture that the
   liberalisation was supposed to foster. Doctors' and patients' groups,
   which had opposed the move in the first place, are calling once more
   for the government to backtrack.

   Last year it looked as if opponents of looser licensing laws would get
   their way. The puritanical new prime minister, Gordon Brown, threw out
   plans for a supercasino, promised to rethink the decision to downgrade
   cannabis and said that he "would not hesitate" to tighten the
   alcohol-licensing rules once more if a review of the new regime
   warranted it.

   But they now seem likely to be disappointed. That review, due soon,
   will probably recommend only a few tweaks. There will be tougher
   measures to curb under-age drinking, and harsher penalties for rowdy
   venues, but no return to last orders. Although ending the race to
   drink up before closing time has not moderated drinking habits,
   neither have apocalyptic predictions come to pass. Violence fuelled by
   alcohol has remained broadly stable, with slightly fewer incidents
   around 11pm, when tanked-up hordes used to pour out onto the streets,
   and slightly more in the wee hours.

   That may be because 24-hour drinking is almost nowhere the reality.
   Most premises have extended their licences by only an hour or so. Only
   3% are open around the clock, and two-thirds of them are hotels, which
   were entitled to 24-hour licences under the previous regime.

   The battleground is now shifting from the mean streets to suburban
   living rooms. There has been a long-term rise in the number of Britons
   drinking enough to damage their health: 4,144 deaths were caused by
   alcohol in 1991; by 2005 that had more than doubled to 8,386. Many are
   middle-class and middle-aged folk who would never dream of taking a
   swing at a fellow boozer, but regularly polish off a bottle or two of
   wine at home with dinner.

   Those who campaign for shorter pub-opening hours also want higher
   taxes on alcohol and a crackdown on happy hours and supermarkets'
   special offers. Here they may make more progress. In December MPs
   debated the consequences for the country's health of cheap alcohol;
   much time was spent castigating supermarkets for selling booze below
   cost, and one MP dubbed Sir Terry Leahy, the boss of Tesco, the
   "godfather of British binge drinking".

   Just before Christmas the Office for National Statistics had more bad
   news for bourgeois boozers: it has, apparently, been under-counting
   the Britons who drink to excess. Figures to be published later this
   month will take into account the trend towards stronger wines and
   larger wine glasses. Those whose New Year's resolutions include
   cutting down may wish to note that a large glass of high-alcohol wine
   comes in at a whopping three units.


   The capital's councils have gone blue. Is London ready for a Tory
   mayor?

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

                           Boris has news for you


   NEW YORK was said to be the inspiration behind London's elected mayor,
   a job that Labour created in 1999 as part of its grand devolutionary
   programme. But although the posts may sound similar, their holders
   have little in common. Michael Bloomberg is a financial-data
   billionaire with a Harvard MBA, who runs the Big Apple like a
   business. "Red Ken" Livingstone, his opposite number in London, is
   friendly with Hugo Chávez, Venezuela's socialist president, and is
   planning a festival to mark the 50th anniversary of the Cuban
   revolution.

   London's knack of attracting eccentric candidates--probably because
   the job is much less powerful than New York's--continues. On July 16th
   Boris Johnson, a scarecrow-haired old-Etonian MP, confirmed his desire
   to run as the Conservative candidate in London's mayoral election in
   May. If, as expected, he wins the party's primary ballot in September,
   he may give David Cameron's Tories their best chance yet of toppling
   Mr Livingstone, who became London's first elected mayor in 2000 and is
   seeking a third term.

   Both men are mavericks who are blessed with the gift of the gaffe. Mr
   Johnson is famous for upsetting people everywhere from Liverpool
   (which has a "tribal grievance about the rest of society") to Papua
   New Guinea (which stages "orgies of cannibalism and chief-killing").
   For his part, Red Ken called George Bush "the greatest threat to life
   on this planet".

   Until now, Mr Livingstone's victories have been distinctly one-sided,
   not least because the Tory party has long struggled to find a
   Ken-beater. Jeffrey Archer, their first-ever mayoral candidate, pulled
   out of the 2000 race when accused of perjury and was later imprisoned.
   His replacement, Steven Norris, a little-known former minister, ran
   again in 2004 and was considering a third bid after Tory efforts to
   woo everyone from John Major, a former prime minister, to Lord
   Stevens, a one-time head of London's police, came to naught.

   With the right candidate, London ought to be ripe for the
   Conservatives' taking. Last year's elections gave them a majority on
   14 London councils, twice as many as Labour. Since 2004 they have held
   the most seats in the city-wide London Assembly. They may increase
   their lead in May by taking back votes from UKIP, a right-wing fringe
   party that did well last time.

   Mr Johnson's clownishness is not to every senior Tory's taste but his
   high profile--especially with young voters--makes his antics easier to
   swallow. He is by far the best-known Tory MP bar current and former
   party leaders, says Peter Kellner of YouGov, a pollster. And his faux
   buffoonery makes traditional right-wing positions seem more palatable.
   "I may be in trouble for saying this," he begins self-deprecatingly,
   but "supposing Tower Hamlets or parts of Bradford were to become
   governed by [Muslim] religious zealots?"

   Ahead looms a no-holds-barred contest. But the love-loathe
   relationship that Londoners have with Mr Livingstone means that the
   pool of swing voters is smaller than usual, according to Julia Clark
   of Ipsos MORI, another polling firm. She says the biggest election
   issue is Mr Livingstone's congestion charge for motorists, about which
   most voters formed a view years ago. Londoners will enjoy watching the
   candidates slug it out, but many may have made up their minds already.


   Energy: Attitudes to nuclear power are shifting in response to climate
   change and fears over the security of the supply of fossil fuels. The
   technology of nuclear power has been changing, too

                                                                    Alamy

                                   Alamy

   OVER the next few decades global electricity consumption is expected
   to double. At the same time, many power plants in rich countries,
   built back in the 1960s and 1970s, are nearing the end of their
   projected lifespans. Meanwhile, concern is swelling both about global
   warming, and about the Western world's increasing dependence on a
   shrinking number of hostile or unstable countries for imports of oil
   and gas. The solution to this conundrum, in the eyes of many
   governments, is nuclear power.

   Around the world, 31 reactors are under construction and many more are
   in the planning stages. Some of the most ambitious programmes are
   under way in developing countries. Both China and India are building
   several reactors and intend to increase their nuclear-generating
   capacity several times over in the next 15 years. Some countries, such
   as Turkey and Vietnam, are considering starting nuclear-power
   programmes, and others, including Argentina and South Africa, plan to
   expand their existing ones.

   The rich world is also re-examining the case for nuclear. America is
   expecting a rush of applications to build new reactors in the coming
   months--the first in almost 30 years. Britain's prime minister, Gordon
   Brown, recently affirmed his support for a new generation of nuclear
   power plants. Construction of a new one in Finland, western Europe's
   first for 15 years, began in 2005; work is just starting on another of
   the same design in France. Other European countries that had frozen or
   decided to scrap their nuclear programmes are rethinking their plans.

   There are good reasons for this enthusiasm. Nuclear reactors emit
   almost none of the greenhouse gases responsible for global warming.
   They are fuelled by uranium, which is relatively abundant and is
   available from many sources, including reassuringly stable places such
   as Canada and Australia.

   At the moment 439 nuclear reactors in 31 countries supply 15% of the
   world's electricity. Even without a price on carbon emissions, says
   Fatih Birol, the chief economist of the International Energy Agency
   (IEA), the worldwide generating capacity of nuclear power plants will
   probably increase from about 370 gigawatts today to 520 gigawatts in
   2030. But if there were a price on carbon dioxide, says Mr Birol, "it
   could grow even faster."

   But there are also good reasons for scepticism. Nuclear plants are
   expensive: each can cost several billion dollars to build. Worse, in
   the past, ill-conceived designs, safety scares and the regulatory
   delays they gave rise to made nuclear plants even more costly than
   their hefty price-tags suggest. Vendors of new nuclear plants, such as
   Areva, General Electric (GE), Hitachi and Westinghouse, argue that
   things are different now. The latest designs incorporate suggestions
   from utilities and operators with decades of experience, and should,
   their creators say, make new plants safer and easier to operate. They
   believe the simpler new reactors, with their longer lifespans and
   reduced maintenance costs, will also improve the economics of the
   industry.

                                                  [spacer.gif] [gray.gif]
                                                             [spacer.gif]
       "The latest generation of reactors includes important improvements
                                                     over prior designs."
                                                             [spacer.gif]
                                                               [gray.gif]

   All nuclear reactors rely on nuclear fission, a process that was
   discovered in the 1930s. When certain heavy atoms are struck by a
   neutron, they absorb it, become unstable and split apart. This results
   in two lighter atoms, and two or three neutrons are ejected. The
   process releases large amounts of energy, much of it in the form of
   the kinetic energy of the fast-moving fission products. This kinetic
   energy is converted to heat as the fission products slow down.

   If the ejected neutrons go on to strike other unstable atoms nearby,
   those too can break apart, releasing further neutrons in a process
   known as a chain reaction. When enough of these neutrons produce
   further fissions--rather than escaping, bouncing off or being absorbed
   by atoms that do not split apart--the process becomes self-sustaining.
   An uncontrolled chain reaction within a large amount of fissionable
   material can lead to an explosive release of energy, as in nuclear
   weapons. But in nuclear reactors, which contain far less fissionable
   material, the chain reaction and the release of energy are carefully
   controlled.

   War and peace

   In 1942 the physicist Enrico Fermi led a group of scientists who built
   the first nuclear reactor as part of the Manhattan Project--America's
   effort to build the first atomic bomb. Although the reactor was simple
   in design, it included features that are part of almost every nuclear
   power plant today. The reactor core consisted of pellets of uranium
   fuel inside bricks made of graphite, which served as a "moderator",
   reducing the speed of the neutrons in order to maximise their ability
   to cause further fissions. (Most reactors today use water as the
   moderator.) In addition, the set-up included "control rods" made of a
   material that absorbed neutrons. These rods could be inserted into the
   core to slow or shut down the chain reaction if necessary.

   Although all of this was done with a view to building an effective
   weapon, the scientists involved always knew that nuclear technologies
   also had promising peaceful uses. In 1953 America's president, Dwight
   Eisenhower, gave his famous "Atoms for Peace" speech before the United
   Nations General Assembly, in which he called for the controlled
   application of nuclear energy in a civilian context. In the mid-1950s
   the world's first civilian nuclear power stations appeared in America,
   Britain and Russia.

   America's first civilian nuclear power plant, of a type called a
   pressurised water reactor (PWR), was designed by Westinghouse and
   adapted from the reactors used in nuclear submarines. Inside a PWR,
   water--which is kept under high pressure to prevent it from
   boiling--has a double function. In a closed "primary" loop, it serves
   as a coolant for the reactor core and as a moderator, to slow down the
   fast neutrons created during fission. As the water in the primary loop
   circulates, it becomes very hot. This heat energy is then transferred
   to a secondary loop of water. The resulting steam is used to spin
   turbines that generate electricity.

   Nuclear's golden age

   In the 1950s the pursuit of atomic energy was viewed as a largely
   positive endeavour. In a speech in 1954 before a group of science
   writers, the head of America's Atomic Energy Commission, Lewis
   Strauss, even declared that one day nuclear power would be "too cheap
   to meter". By the mid-1960s America's two leading reactor vendors,
   General Electric (GE) and Westinghouse, were involved in an intense
   competition. GE began to offer "turnkey" contracts to utilities, in
   which it delivered an entire nuclear plant for a fixed price. To keep
   up, Westinghouse followed suit, causing a surge in orders. But this
   sales ploy turned out to be a money-loser for both firms in the end.

   The boom in reactor construction coincided with the beginnings of
   America's environmental movement and a sense of growing unease about
   nuclear power. By the early 1970s uncertainties over radioactive-waste
   disposal, the effects of radiation and the potential consequences of a
   nuclear accident prompted a backlash. One frightening scenario was the
   "China Syndrome": the idea that molten radioactive fuel undergoing a
   runaway reaction might burn its way through the bottom of the
   reactor's pressure vessel and containment structure, and then down
   into the Earth. Of course the fuel would never actually reach China,
   but were it to breach the containment structure, the result could be a
   huge release of radioactivity.

   As electricity demand levelled off and interest rates shot up,
   applications to build nuclear reactors started to decline, at least in
   America. Then in 1979 a serious accident occurred at a plant at Three
   Mile Island, near Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. A combination of
   mechanical failures and operator errors caused a partial melting of
   the reactor core. Fortunately the pressure vessel housing the core
   held, and virtually no dangerous radioactive gases escaped from the
   plant, says J. Samuel Walker, the historian of the Nuclear Regulatory
   Commission, the agency that regulates America's nuclear power plants.
   Although the accident nearly killed off America's nuclear-power
   industry, it did not harm any people.

   But a few years later a true disaster occurred. In 1986 a reactor at
   Chernobyl in Ukraine became unstable, and a power surge inside the
   core led to two explosions that destroyed the reactor and blew its
   roof off. As a result, significant amounts of radioactive material
   escaped into the environment. About 30 emergency workers died of
   radiation exposure shortly after the accident. Thousands more people
   who lived in contaminated areas developed serious health problems,
   some of them fatal. The cause of the accident was found to be a
   combination of operator errors and inherent flaws in the plant's
   design. Industry insiders pointed out that reactors based on this
   flawed design had not been deployed in Western countries. Even so, the
   accident further undermined public confidence in nuclear power.

   Although the nuclear industry faced decline or stagnation in many
   Western countries in the 1980s, it thrived in one of them: France.
   After the oil crisis of 1973, France decided to pursue the goal of
   fossil-fuel independence. With few energy resources of its own,
   pursuing nuclear power seemed like the best strategy. All the
   commercial nuclear plants operating in France today were based on
   technology devised by Westinghouse, which licensed its PWR design to
   France in the 1960s. Today the country has 59 nuclear reactors
   supplying 78% of its electricity.

   Nuclear has worked well in France in part because it is accepted by
   politicians and the public alike, so there are few delays due to
   protests or planning problems. Elsewhere, these have lengthened the
   construction period and enormously increased costs. Once up and
   running, however, nuclear plants have a distinct advantage over those
   run on coal or natural gas: they need comparatively little fuel to
   operate. Although the price of uranium jumped from about $70 per pound
   in January to about $130 in mid-July, operating costs of nuclear power
   plants have changed very little. (Construction accounts for as much as
   three-quarters of the cost of nuclear generation.) Moreover, the rise
   in the price has prompted an exploration boom that will ultimately
   lead to more mines and greater supply. Uranium is not thought to be
   particularly scarce--it has simply not been very profitable to look
   for it recently.

   The latest generation of reactors, which evolved from models
   constructed in the 1970s and 1980s, include important improvements
   over prior designs. Westinghouse's new AP1000, for example, has
   "passive safety" systems that can prevent a meltdown during an
   emergency without operator intervention. If the reactor loses pressure
   because of a loss of coolant, for example, pressurised tanks deliver
   water to the core, since the pressure in the tanks is higher than that
   in the core, explains Howard Bruschi, who has worked for Westinghouse
   since the 1960s and is now a consultant to the company. The new
   reactor's simplified design also means that fewer motors, pumps and
   pipes are needed, reducing not only the potential for mechanical
   errors, but also costs of maintenance, inspections and repairs.
   Westinghouse recently agreed to provide four new plants to China.

   Soul of a new reactor

   Meanwhile, Areva, a French nuclear company, is engineering ever more
   powerful plants. Its first reactor, which began operating in 1977, was
   rated at 900 megawatts; its latest model, the evolutionary power
   reactor (EPR), is a 1,600-megawatt design. The company has already
   begun building two such plants in Europe: one in Finland, which is now
   expected to start operating in 2011, about two years late, and another
   in France. Both the EPR and the AP1000, along with GE's latest design,
   are among the plants under consideration by American utilities.

   A demonstration plant of a completely different type, a "pebble bed"
   reactor, is scheduled to be built in South Africa starting in 2009.
   Based on technology that originated in Germany, its design is unique
   in several ways. For one thing, its small size (165 megawatts) should
   make it comparatively fast and cheap to build; depending on power
   needs, several units sharing a single control room could be
   constructed on one site. And the uranium fuel is encapsulated in
   rugged "pebbles", the size of tennis balls, which are designed to
   withstand a loss of coolant without disintegrating, making the reactor
   extremely safe. Andrew Kadak, a professor at the Massachusetts
   Institute of Technology (MIT), who has been developing a smaller,
   alternative pebble-bed design with his students, is convinced that
   "these reactors cannot melt down."

   Even though new designs for nuclear plants may be safer, they still
   generate toxic waste. After about three years of use, the fuel is
   depleted of most fissile uranium but has accumulated long-lived
   radioactive materials that cannot be burned in conventional reactors.
   At the moment most such waste is stored near the plant until it can be
   moved to a permanent facility. But no country is yet operating a final
   disposal site for highly radioactive nuclear waste. America's Yucca
   Mountain repository, for example, is not expected to be ready for use
   for many years, if ever. In some countries nuclear waste is
   "reprocessed"--a procedure in which plutonium is separated from the
   rest of the spent fuel, which can then be made into new fuel.
   Plutonium, of course, can be used to make nuclear weapons. Because of
   concern over nuclear proliferation, America has not engaged in
   civilian reprocessing since 1977.

   As part of a new multinational initiative called the Global Nuclear
   Energy Partnership (GNEP), however, America's Department of Energy is
   supporting a type of spent fuel reprocessing which does not separate
   the plutonium from other highly radioactive materials in the waste,
   thus making it more resistant to proliferation than traditional
   reprocessing. This mixture of plutonium and other radioactive elements
   could then be turned into fuel suitable for use in "fast" reactors.
   Most reactors in operation today are called "thermal" reactors,
   because they use a moderator to slow down the neutrons and promote
   fission. Fast reactors, in contrast, do not employ moderators and use
   much faster neutrons to produce fissions. So they can consume many of
   the long-lived radioactive materials that thermal reactors cannot.

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

                  They don't build them like they used to

   This approach could extract far more energy from a given amount of
   nuclear fuel while at the same time reducing the volume and toxicity
   of nuclear waste. Proponents of fast reactors reckon that most of the
   remaining waste would need to be stored for only a few centuries,
   perhaps, rather than hundreds of thousands of years, once the most
   radioactive elements had been separated out. According to the Nuclear
   Energy Institute, a lobby group in Washington, DC, this could mean
   that America would need only one nuclear-waste repository. In the long
   term, a fleet of fast reactors could use nuclear fuel so efficiently
   that "for all practical purposes, the uranium would be inexhaustible,"
   says William Hannum, a nuclear physicist who used to work at America's
   Argonne National Laboratory.

   But opponents of this strategy call it a distraction that could hinder
   the renewal of the nuclear power industry. For one thing, many new
   fast reactors and fuel-reprocessing facilities would have to be built,
   adding billions of dollars to the enormous sums already required for
   new nuclear plants. In addition, some of the technologies in question
   have not been demonstrated on a commercial scale yet. And the GNEP
   reverses America's ban on civilian reprocessing, which critics say
   could encourage the proliferation of weapons-grade materials.

   In the end, the deployment of new nuclear reactors will depend on many
   factors, including successful waste and proliferation management,
   improved economics, and perhaps most important, convincing the public
   that nuclear reactors can be operated safely. Despite these obstacles,
   there is an undeniable mood of optimism in the industry. Whether that
   will be enough to spark the deployment of the hundreds of reactors
   that will be needed to help mitigate the effects of global warming
   remains to be seen, cautions Richard Lester, a professor of nuclear
   science and engineering at MIT. Were there to be another disaster like
   Chernobyl, or a successful terrorist attack on a nuclear plant, all
   bets would be off. But for now most people in the industry agree that
   nuclear power's prospects look brighter than they have in a long time.


   Leftist rhetoric distracts from a move towards the centre

   THE Liberal Democrats, often neglected by the media, got their own
   back at their annual conference in Brighton this week. Journalists
   decamping to the coastal town were looking forward to some of the
   internal strife that has made Britain's third party an intermittently
   rewarding beat in recent years: a leadership putsch, for example, or a
   showdown between the different strands of liberalism that sometimes
   make the party hard to handle. They had, instead, to get their heads
   around some serious bits of policy-making.

   To be sure, there are grumbles about Sir Menzies Campbell, the party
   leader, who is prone to presentational gaffes and seems older than his
   66 years. But there is little desire for a contest only 18 months
   after he replaced Charles Kennedy. Delegates also play down the
   ideological fault-line between the "Orange Bookers", a group of mostly
   young MPs who are authors of a tome espousing economic as well as
   social liberalism, and more conventionally left-wing elements of the
   party. All political parties, they note, are uneasy coalitions.

   And yet a divide of sorts did emerge in Brighton: that between the
   party's rhetoric, which is flirting heavily with the populist left,
   and its policies, most of which are assiduously centrist. On September
   16th Sir Menzies lambasted the rich for having done "too well" under
   Labour. The following day Vince Cable, the party's Treasury spokesman,
   deplored Britain's generous tax treatment of internationally mobile
   wealth, labelling Gordon Brown the "patron saint of the super-rich".
   After that Mr Kennedy reminded delegates that, when the party went
   into the last election promising to raise the top rate of income tax,
   it won its largest number of parliamentary seats for 80 years.

   Such language is not without a tactical rationale: polls show that
   most Britons, including Tory voters, believe that the richest should
   pay more tax. And it may be the only way of retaining left-wing voters
   who defected to the party from Labour over the Iraq war at the last
   election.

   But it also disguises the real drift of party policy, which is towards
   the middle ground. Having proposed an extra penny on the basic rate of
   income tax under Mr Kennedy, the Liberal Democrats now plan a
   four-pence cut. This would be offset by tax hikes elsewhere,
   especially on those who pollute: under Chris Huhne, their environment
   spokesman, the Lib Dems have become the first of the big parties to
   aim for a zero-carbon Britain. But the party's stomach for imposing
   heavier direct taxes on large sections of the electorate has gone.

   Its line on public services--long criticised as mere demands for
   higher spending, and uncosted ones at that--is also starting to
   embrace market reforms. Norman Lamb, the party's health spokesman,
   wants to put more NHS funding into the hands of patients: pregnant
   women, for example, should be able to purchase care from independent
   midwives. David Laws, who holds the schools brief, insists that just
   pouring more money into the system won't help Britain's failing
   pupils.

   Even on civil liberties, the issue which (along with the environment)
   most animates Liberal Democrats, there is a gap between rhetoric and
   policy. The conference's opening rally saw Sir Menzies share a
   platform with Shami Chakrabarti, head of a campaign group named
   Liberty, who used the opportunity to call Lord Carlile, the Lib Dem
   peer who reviews anti-terrorism laws for the government, a "public
   champion for internment". The party's policy in this area is rather
   more pragmatic. Nick Clegg, the home-affairs spokesman, balances his
   opposition to extending detention without trial with ideas to bring
   suspects to court more quickly, and proposes a qualified rather than
   an absolute amnesty for illegal immigrants.

   Some Orange Bookers admit that the left-wing tone various leading Lib
   Dems struck this week may have distracted attention from the serious
   work on policy. Not an incendiary revelation, but perhaps the closest
   journalists will get to an internal rift in the party anytime soon.


   Medicine: A new device detects heartbeats and brain activity at a
   distance, doing away with uncomfortable electrodes

   AS ANYONE who has undergone an electrocardiograph (ECG) examination
   knows, it is an uncomfortable procedure that involves sticky
   electrodes which seem to want to rip out your body hair when they are
   removed. This is because the current the electrodes detect is weak,
   and a really good contact needs to be made between apparatus and skin.

   Robert Prance and his colleagues at the University of Sussex, in
   England, plan to do away with all that. They have developed a device
   that can act as an ECG--or its cranial equivalent, an
   electroencephalograph--without even touching the skin. It does so by
   measuring the signal without drawing current, using "high impedance"
   sensors.

   Impedance is related to resistance--which, as generations of
   schoolchildren have had drummed into them, is the ratio of voltage to
   current. If current and voltage are fluctuating, however, other
   factors come into play, as the current and voltage interact with each
   other. Impedance is a measure of electrical resistance that captures
   the effects of this feedback.

   The advantage of using high-impedance sensors is that the signal--an
   electric potential--can be measured at a distance. This is because the
   resistance is so great that a layer of air makes no appreciable
   difference. Indeed, Mr Prance's new device can pick up the trace of a
   heartbeat from a metre away. It can also sense electrical activity in
   the brain through the hair.

   The result is a probe that can easily be picked up by medics and held
   close to the patient. Wires attached to the back of the probe lead to
   a computer that translates the electrical signals into a picture of
   the heartbeat, brainwave or whatever. A test version developed by the
   team was the size of a watch and was worn on the wrist. The final
   version will be of similar size, but will not touch the skin.

   Mr Prance hopes that his invention will not merely be more comfortable
   than today's electrode-based detectors, but will also be able to do
   new things. His team is experimenting with the use of many sensors in
   combination to produce pictures of electrical activity in the heart.
   An electrical wave traverses the heart each time it beats,
   co-ordinating the contraction and relaxation of the chambers that pump
   blood around the body. By joining 25 sensors together, the researchers
   hope to demonstrate the technique's potential as a medical-imaging
   tool. It would be difficult to do this trick with conventional
   detectors.

   Nor is the high-impedance technique restricted to medical
   applications. It is already being adapted to look for faults in
   microelectronic circuits, and it might eventually be used to test
   mechanical components made of stainless steel or carbon fibre for
   structural integrity. It could thus be used to give machines, as well
   as people, a clean bill of health.


   After months of prevarication Gordon Brown must settle the bank's fate




   IF FINANCE were art, the slow-motion demise of Northern Rock would
   surely belong to the surrealist school. Magritte's enigmatic picture
   of a smoker's pipe, captioned "This is not a pipe", deserves pride of
   place at the mortgage lender's Newcastle head office. This is a bank,
   after all, that is supposedly still in private hands and solvent, even
   though it is propped up by breathtaking amounts of public money. The
   painting also merits a place at Downing Street, as ministers chase in
   diminishing circles to maintain the surrealist tease that "This is not
   a publicly owned bank".

   An extraordinary--in both senses of the word--meeting of Northern
   Rock's shareholders on January 15th added a scene from the theatre of
   the absurd. Held at Newcastle's Metro Radio Arena, which was playing
   host later in the week to the "Ultimate Fighting Championship", the
   meeting was an attempt by two hedge funds, which own 18% of the bank,
   to assert shareholders' interests. Their goal was to restrict the
   board's ability to resolve Northern Rock's difficulties by issuing new
   shares or selling assets. In the event, only one of their four
   resolutions was adopted.

   Even as shareholders voted, however, the stockmarket was passing
   judgment on their brazen assumption that they were still in charge. In
   February last year Northern Rock's share price touched £12.58
   ($24.77), valuing the bank at more than £5 billion; on the day of the
   meeting the price fell by 16% to 69p. And with reason. Shareholders'
   shrivelled equity is now worth less than £300m, whereas public
   financial backing for Northern Rock--£25 billion in lending by the
   Bank of England and another £30 billion in Treasury guarantees--totals
   £55 billion. Taxpayers' total exposure amounts to at least half of
   Northern Rock's balance sheet.

   By refusing to handcuff the bank's board, shareholders kept open the
   possibility of a private-sector rescue, which Alistair Darling, the
   chancellor of the exchequer, said again on January 15th was his
   preferred option. Yet that evening Gordon Brown, the prime minister,
   gave his strongest hint so far that Northern Rock might be
   nationalised. Its share price slipped further the following day.

   The government faces this stark choice--between finding a fully
   financed private-sector saviour (which now looks increasingly
   elusive), taking the bank into public ownership or just letting it go
   bust--because it failed to prepare for a banking belly-flop in a
   changed financial world. Not so long ago the Bank of England could
   have orchestrated a rescue by Britain's top banks. But today's more
   open and competitive financial environment requires a new way of
   dealing with banking emergencies.

   Britain is the only country in the G7 club of leading economies
   without a special public mechanism for grabbing control of a failing
   bank and ensuring that depositors get their money without delay. The
   government is now planning to give such powers to regulators at the
   Financial Services Authority, but these will come too late to help
   Northern Rock. If it were to become insolvent, deposits could well be
   frozen despite the Treasury's guarantees.

   This failure to reform before banking disaster struck is now costing
   the government dear. Private-sector saviours are proving thin on the
   ground. Several firms, including J.C. Flowers, an American
   private-equity company experienced in sorting out ailing financial
   institutions, initially expressed interest in this one. But only two
   contenders are still in the ring. One is a consortium led by Sir
   Richard Branson's Virgin Group, which would take a controlling
   interest in the bank. The other is Olivant Advisors, a
   private-investment firm headed by Luqman Arnold, formerly the boss of
   a rival bank, Abbey National. Olivant proposes taking a minority stake
   in Northern Rock and turning it around through better management.

   Both would-be rescuers are stumbling over the same hurdle, however.
   Each has promised swift repayment to the Bank of England of a sizeable
   chunk of its lending: Virgin has promised £11 billion and Olivant
   between £10 billion and £15 billion. But the money must be borrowed to
   fulfil that pledge, and the financial crisis of the past few months
   has left banks both short of capital and leery of risk, especially as
   the mortgage market turns down.

   Time is now running short. Mr Darling has set a deadline of February
   for any private-sector solution, in part because European Union
   approval for the current package of state support lasts for only six
   months. At the end of last year the Treasury asked Goldman Sachs, an
   investment bank, to explore whether it could raise the necessary
   private finance where others had failed. Goldman's apparent delay in
   presenting a final report suggests that it has been unable to crack
   the nut.

   That leaves nationalisation as the only remaining remedy, and it is an
   unpalatable one. The government has been preparing the ground: on
   January 12th it emerged that Ron Sandler, who sorted out the Lloyds's
   of London insurance market a decade ago, will take charge of Northern
   Rock if it is nationalised. Taking the bank into public hands would
   nonetheless be politically embarrassing for Mr Brown, who has been as
   keen as Tony Blair for Labour to shed its reputation as the party of
   state ownership. And it would probably mean breaking one of his
   self-imposed fiscal rules, as at least half the bank's liabilities
   would move on to the public books. But where Northern Rock is
   concerned, a dose of realism is long overdue.


   A convenient diary mix-up proves embarrassing for the prime minister

   [3]Gordon Brown

   IT DID not take long for the "Macavity" jibes to start, once word
   spread that an unconvincing diary clash would prevent Gordon Brown
   from attending a ceremony in Lisbon to sign the European Union's
   controversial reform treaty. When it subsequently emerged that Mr
   Brown would fly to Lisbon on December 13th anyway, to sign the treaty
   discreetly after the main ceremony had finished, the jokes gave way to
   head-shaking disbelief in several capitals.

   Westminster insiders long ago began to notice that Mr Brown has a
   talent for not being there when trouble hits. Lord Turnbull, once
   Britain's top civil servant, merely put a name to it when he compared
   him last March to T.S. Eliot's fictional cat. Now Europeans are
   learning about this trait for themselves.

   The treaty is deeply unpopular in Britain. It is disliked both by
   those who fear that it undercuts their country's freedom of action in
   important respects and by those who resent being denied a referendum
   on it, even though one was promised by Tony Blair, Mr Brown's
   predecessor, on the constitution that the treaty largely re-packages.

   So while EU leaders prepared for a familiar ritual on December 13th
   (solemn signatures in some ancient palace--or, in this case, a
   monastery--followed by champagne toasts and speeches about European
   unity), Mr Brown announced that he could not miss a scheduled grilling
   by committee chairmen in the House of Commons. Only after that could
   he fly to Lisbon to catch the end of an EU leaders' lunch. At some
   point, during coffee perhaps, he would pop off and sign the treaty.

   Alas for Mr Brown, this grudging half-visit seems the worst of all
   worlds. Eurosceptics in Britain are enraged that Mr Brown is signing
   the treaty at all. In Brussels the prime minister's antics inspired
   embarrassment and puzzlement--not least when his aides insisted that
   the timing of the Lisbon ceremony was known too late to alter Mr
   Brown's diary. Pained European officials noted that Mr Brown was
   personally informed of the date, time and place of the ceremony in
   October by the prime minister of Portugal, which holds the current
   rotating presidency of the EU.

   Strictly speaking, diplomatic protocol did not require Mr Brown to be
   there--his foreign secretary, David Miliband, was already due in
   Lisbon for the ceremony, and ministers have signed treaties before.
   The Single European Act, for example--a more significant text--was
   signed by Lynda Chalker, then a junior minister. But the Portuguese
   had hoped that if national leaders signed the treaty in person, the
   symbolism of the event would draw a line under the crisis provoked in
   2005, when French and Dutch voters rejected the original constitution.

   Mr Brown's snub will be forgiven--in the end, Brussels folk see it as
   an internal problem, intelligible only to the British. But the
   dithering beforehand (unnamed British "sources" had hinted that he
   might not go to Lisbon at all) was more problematic, as was the
   lameness of his excuse. In diplomacy, indecision can be as harmful as
   the final decision taken.


   An intriguing plea deal in America has big implications for Britain

   IF BRITISH businessmen were worried before, they are positively
   quaking now, wondering who will be seized next by the ever-extending
   arm of American law. On December 10th Conrad Black, a Canadian turned
   British peer, was sentenced in Chicago to six and a half years in jail
   for embezzling $6.1m (£3m) from his Hollinger media empire. A
   fortnight earlier, three British bankers pleaded guilty in a federal
   court in Houston to wire fraud related to the Enron affair, after
   being extradited from Britain to face trial.

   Both the so-called "NatWest Three", who are due to be sentenced in
   February, and Lord Black, who once controlled more than 200 newspapers
   around the globe, including Britain's Daily Telegraph, the Jerusalem
   Post and the Chicago Sun-Times, now face the prospect of a spell in
   one of America's less than salubrious jails, where sexual assault and
   drug-fuelled violence are often rife. Foreigners are not eligible for
   a minimum-security prison, but Lord Black is hoping at least for the
   gentler conditions of the next grade up--a low-security institution.

   But help for British white-collar crooks caught in America's legal net
   may be on the way. Under an unprecedented plea agreement involving the
   Department of Justice and Britain's Office of Fair Trading (OFT),
   three British oil executives, who pleaded guilty in a Houston court
   this week to price-fixing, are being permitted to return to Britain
   next week. They have agreed that, once back, they will allow
   themselves to be re-arrested and re-charged by the British authorities
   with an almost identical offence, to which they will again plead
   guilty.

   Peter Whittle, a consultant, and Bryan Allison and David Brammar, both
   of Dunlop Oil & Marine, a firm that makes equipment for the oil and
   gas industry, are accused of conspiring between 1999 and 2007 to fix
   the prices of hundreds of millions of dollars worth of marine hoses
   used to transfer oil between tankers and storage facilities. The
   charge is of price-fixing on a global scale, which affected both the
   American and the British markets.

   Under America's Sherman Antitrust Act, they could have faced up to ten
   years in jail. Under English competition law, the maximum penalty for
   price-fixing is half that. According to the men's still-secret plea
   deal with the American authorities, they are understood to have
   negotiated jail terms of around two years or less, which they will be
   allowed to serve in Britain provided the sentence imposed by the
   English courts is at least as long. If it is not, the Americans
   reserve the right to seek the men's extradition back to the United
   States to serve the remainder of their American sentence there.

   Alistair Graham, a partner at White & Case, finds the deal a
   "fascinating development". His law firm is fighting another
   extradition case, that of Ian Norris, a British executive facing
   price-fixing charges on the other side of the Atlantic. "The British
   and American prosecuting authorities have been developing an
   increasingly close relationship in recent years." Both he and others
   worry, however, that this new spirit of co-operation might "get in the
   way of British justice", putting pressure on British judges to hand
   out more severe American-style sentences.

   The differences may shrink anyway, for Britain itself, once thought a
   touch languid in the pursuit of white-collar crime, is chasing
   price-fixers more hotly these days. The offence became a crime in
   Britain only in 2002; if the oil men are indeed tried at home, it will
   be the first criminal prosecution for price-fixing in British history.
   The Dunlop deal could blaze a trail.


   Stewart Brand, a pioneer of both environmentalism and online
   communities, has not lost his willingness to rock the boat


   IN SOME respects Stewart Brand's green credentials are impeccable. His
   mentor was Paul Ehrlich, an environmental thinker at Stanford
   university and author of "The Population Bomb", published in 1968.
   That book, and the related Club of Rome movement of the 1970s,
   famously predicted that overpopulation would soon result in the world
   running out of food, oil and other resources. Though it proved
   spectacularly wrong, its warning served as a clarion call for the
   modern environmental movement.

   Mr Brand made his name with a publication of his own, which also
   appeared in 1968, called "The Whole Earth Catalogue". It was a
   path-breaking manual crammed with examples of small-scale technologies
   to enable individuals to reduce their environmental impact, and is
   best known for its cover, which featured a picture of the Earth from
   space (which Mr Brand helped to persuade America's space agency, NASA,
   to release). The book became a bestseller in anti-corporate and
   environmental circles. In 1985 Mr Brand co-founded the WELL, a
   pioneering online community that was a precursor of today's
   social-networking websites such as MySpace and Facebook.

   Mr Brand still has a following among the Birkenstock set, and even
   lives on a tugboat near San Francisco. But meet him in person and it
   becomes clear he is not exactly your typical crunchy-granola green.
   Sitting down to lunch at a posh beach resort on Coronado Island, off
   San Diego, he does not order a vegan special but a hearty Angus burger
   with bacon, cheese and French fries, and a side-order of lobster
   bisque. "I'm genetically a contrarian," he says with a broad smile.

   Three unpopular ideas

   That is pretty evident from his recent proclamations. Rather than
   basking in past glories or sailing off to a quiet retirement, the
   68-year-old counter-cultural icon remains determined to rock the boat.
   But this time his target is the environmental movement itself. He has
   come up with a series of what he calls "environmental heresies", which
   he hopes will influence a new generation of pragmatic, problem-solving
   greens. Three things that most greens vehemently oppose--genetic
   engineering, urbanisation and nuclear power--should, he believes, be
   embraced on environmental grounds.

   Start with genetic engineering. Many greens object to the idea,
   fearing a deluge of "Frankenfoods" and the contamination of pristine
   wild species. But Mr Brand points to the work of Norman Borlaug, the
   Nobel prize-winner who proved the Club of Rome (and Mr Brand) wrong
   with his "green revolution" in agricultural productivity. Mr Brand now
   sees great promise in using genetic science to feed the world, and
   perhaps prevent future wars, by making crops that are more
   disease-resistant, drought-tolerant and produce higher yields.

   Similarly, he argues that urbanisation can be good for the
   environment. Mankind has now become a primarily urban species for the
   first time in its history, and every serious forecast predicts a surge
   in the size and number of megacities. Most environmentalists are
   dismayed at this trend, and worry about the implications of
   urbanisation for air pollution, resource consumption and so on. But Mr
   Brand bluntly rebuts them, insisting that megacities "will increase
   the Earth's carrying capacity for humans".

   That may seem an odd argument from a man who wrote a guide to natural
   living and going "off grid", but it reflects another aspect of the
   maturation of his views. Cities are good for the planet, he argues,
   because they are engines of wealth creation, and greater prosperity
   makes promoting greenery easier. When poor people move from bleak
   subsistence farming to the economic opportunities found in urban
   slums, he insists, they no longer need to chop down endangered trees
   or eat bush meat. "Nature grows back," says Mr Brand. He also believes
   cities unleash innovation--pointing to the use of mobile phones in
   slums to send money--and reckons the next big trend will come "not
   from Japanese schoolgirls, but slum-dwellers in Africa".

   Mr Brand's critics accuse him of romanticising the potential of
   megacities. But his support for the revival of nuclear power is even
   more controversial. For years, he held the orthodox environmental view
   that nukes were evil. He now confesses that this was merely "knee-jerk
   opposition", and not a carefully considered opinion. His growing
   concern about global warming, which he calls "the single most
   important environmental threat facing mankind", explains his U-turn in
   favour of this low-carbon but hugely controversial source of
   electricity.

   The turning point came, he says, when he visited Yucca Mountain, a
   remote site in the Nevada desert where American officials plan to bury
   the country's nuclear waste. He was visiting the site as part of his
   Long Now project, which aims to build a "clock" that will last 10,000
   years or more in the hope of encouraging society to think about very
   long-term issues. While studying the deep hole in the ground at Yucca
   for tips on building his clock--the site, like the clock, is being
   designed to survive unscathed for thousands of years--he had an
   epiphany.

   Although greens and other anti-nuclear activists oppose the Yucca
   Mountain project, Mr Brand says he realised that "we are asking the
   wrong question" about nuclear power. Rather than asking how spent
   nuclear fuel can be kept safe for 10,000 to 100,000 years, he says, we
   should worry about keeping it safe for only 100 years. Because nuclear
   waste still contains an enormous amount of energy, future generations
   may be able to harness it as an energy source through tomorrow's
   better technologies.

   His embrace of nuclear power was another surprising about-face, and
   plenty of energy experts, including some of his close friends,
   disagree with him. One of them is Amory Lovins, the head of the Rocky
   Mountain Institute, a natural-resources consultancy. Mr Brand recalls
   attending Mr Lovins's wedding many years ago in an American Indian
   sweat tent, where Mr Lovins and his (now ex) wife Hunter exchanged
   hunting knives in a traditional ceremony. Mr Lovins argues that the
   economics of big nuclear power plants make no sense, and that the
   future belongs to energy efficiency and small-scale, distributed
   "micropower" plants based on renewable energy sources.

                                                  [spacer.gif] [gray.gif]
                                                             [spacer.gif]
     "Environmental change changes everything, including environmentalism
                                                                 itself."
                                                             [spacer.gif]
                                                               [gray.gif]

   That friendly debate points to some awkward aspects of Mr Brand's
   self-styled environmental heresy. For one thing, the decentralised
   approach to power generation advocated by Mr Lovins seems more in tune
   with the do-it-yourself ethos of "The Whole Earth Catalogue" than the
   big nuclear power plants now championed by Mr Brand. And Mr Brand's
   argument for taking a more short-term view of nuclear safety seems to
   fly directly in the face of his Long Now project, which is intended to
   promote a more long-term perspective.

   The apparent contradiction is made more glaring by the fact that Mr
   Brand has made a tidy packet from long-term planning through his
   Global Business Network (GBN), a respected scenario-planning and
   futurology outfit. Some greens grouse that GBN's work with big oil
   companies and the American military is unethical, but Mr Brand has
   little patience for such narrow-mindedness. "Saying all companies are
   evil is like saying all greens are romantic twits," he says. "You need
   to discriminate!" To bolster his point, he points to what he calls the
   quiet but influential role that Royal Dutch/Shell played in South
   Africa's peaceful end to apartheid. He also defends his military
   clients with vigour, noting that they are often "more serious" and
   "longer-term thinkers" than business clients.

   So how does he respond to the apparent conflict between the
   long-termism of the Long Now project and the much shorter-term view of
   nuclear waste he uses to justify new nuclear power? He neatly
   sidesteps the contradiction. "Coal and carbon-loading the atmosphere
   are much bigger problems for the future than nuclear waste, which is a
   relatively minor risk," he says.

   Shades of green

   This willingness to get his hands dirty and balance one risk against
   another, rather than clinging to ideologically pure positions when
   confronted with difficult choices, sets Mr Brand apart from the many
   ideologues in the environmental movement. Indeed, he proudly calls
   himself an "eco-pragmatist". He argues that two ideological camps have
   dominated the green movement for too long: "the scientists and the
   romantics". The former group has been stuck in the ivory tower, while
   the latter has held on to noble but impractical views that, he
   reckons, have often been contrary to rational scientific thinking. The
   grip that these two rival camps have had on environmentalism, he says,
   explains its malaise.

   But growing public awareness of climate change and other green
   concerns promises to end this. "Environmental change changes
   everything," he insists, "and among the biggest change of all will be
   in environmentalism itself." As environmental issues have moved up the
   technological agenda, says Mr Brand, there has been a large influx of
   engineers into the environmental movement. These "techies" had
   previously been deeply sceptical of greenery, but he now thinks they
   may save the cause even as they save the planet. Unlike the romantics
   and the airy scientists, he says, "engineers focus on solving
   problems."

   He points approvingly to Elon Musk, a South African technology
   entrepreneur, and his green engineers at Tesla Motors, an electric-car
   firm. Mr Brand also tips his hat toward Mr Lovins, whom he praises as
   an early example of a problem-solving "engineer" (he is actually a
   physicist by training) who embraced the green cause. But this new
   generation of green engineers will only be able to transform the
   environmental movement, Mr Brand reckons, if the old guard allows it
   to. "Let's see if there is an allergic reaction to this infusion or
   real progress," he quips.

   Mr Brand's own pragmatism can be seen in his willingness to own up to
   his mistakes and learn from them. When his alarmism over the Y2K
   computer bug turned out to be wrong, for example, it made him realise
   that his own personal computer was a poor proxy for the world at
   large, which is "modular, shockproof and robust". And the key mistake
   made by the Club of Rome's forecasts (which he calls "self-defeating
   prophesies"), he now acknowledges, was to see the world as static, and
   to place too little faith in the possibilities of technological
   progress.

   His critics might argue that Mr Brand now places too much faith in
   clever engineers and fancy technology to solve the world's
   environmental problems. But he can respond that his pragmatic approach
   goes back a long way, and has deep roots. As he put it in the
   introduction to "The Whole Earth Catalogue", written four decades ago:
   "We are as gods and might as well get good at it."




   Gordon Brown risks provoking two dangers that he is trying to avert

   [3]Gordon Brown

   IN DOSTOYEVSKY'S novel "The Idiot", the hero--part savant, part
   blundering naïf--arrives at an important party with only one goal in
   mind: not to break the hostess's valuable Chinese vase. He wants to
   keep his distance, but ends up smashing it. The episode is a nice
   parable of anxiety-management; it shows how trying too hard to avert a
   danger can instead make it happen.

   Gordon Brown is himself part deep-thinking ascetic, part inadvertent
   blunderer, and he risks making the same mistake, in more than one way.
   A wrong-headed overkill--one that may help to induce the outcome that
   is most feared--is evident in his controversial plan to increase from
   28 days the time suspected terrorists can be held without charge.
   Behind that lies another counterproductive anxiety, one which is
   hobbling Mr Brown's broader mission: his yearning to keep Labour in
   office beyond the roughly 28 more months that, by coincidence, are the
   maximum its current mandate allows.

   In fact his best hope of sticking around for longer is simple: to stop
   worrying about the electoral vase in the corner, give up his
   underwhelming party tricks and concentrate on the far-sighted
   governing that, beneath the mishaps, he is capable of delivering.

   The days are numbered

   Mr Brown sensibly compares the Islamist threat that Britain now faces
   to the cold war, describing it as a generational struggle that must be
   waged in classrooms, libraries and prisons, as well as with bullets.
   But this grown-up realism has been lost in the furore over pre-charge
   detention, which has again become a totemic but needless test of the
   government's strength.

   The prime minister and Jacqui Smith, his embattled home secretary, now
   want to give the police the temporary power to hold terrorism suspects
   for up to 42 days before charging them. That is a humbler goal than
   the push for a 90-day maximum that in 2005 brought Tony Blair his
   first defeat in the House of Commons, after which the current limit
   was set. The latest figure splits the difference (never an encouraging
   sign) with the one of 56 that has been floated since Mr Brown became
   prime minister. The new power would be overseen by judges and MPs, and
   would avowedly be invoked only in exceptional circumstances. Unlike
   his predecessor, Mr Brown seems genuinely attached to the concept of
   liberty, but thinks these provisos make his scheme compatible with
   that principle.

   Unfortunately, they don't. For example, the parliamentary scrutiny
   that forms the main extra safeguard--MPs would get a vote on whether
   the home secretary is right temporarily to stretch the detention
   limit--would sometimes be exercised only after the suspect had been
   banged up for the extra weeks. Since it would make their job easier,
   the police are keen on the move; but most other legal and security
   bigwigs doubt that the extension is justified. The government itself
   accepts that no circumstances have yet arisen in which more than 28
   days have been required, but says such cases may happen in the
   future--an open-ended rationale that might be used to advocate more or
   less anything (torture, say, or maybe the odd covert assassination).

   So anyone who thinks Britain may be quietly sliding towards a state of
   permanent emergency should worry (again). But even fervent
   utilitarians should pay attention, for two reasons. First, although
   the evidence backing the need for change is scant, there is plenty of
   proof that insensitive policing and draconian laws risk alienating,
   and perhaps radicalising, British Muslims: an unintended outcome much
   more catastrophic than the Idiot's broken ornament. Second, this itch
   to push beyond 28 days epitomises what has been the key failing and
   frustration of Mr Brown's bid to survive beyond 28 months: a tendency
   to obscure his own merits, and damage his own prospects, by myopically
   pursuing short-term advantage.

   Governments are naturally inclined to insulate themselves from the
   charge that they have been lax with the public's safety; many security
   initiatives have an obvious political edge. In the case of Labour's
   anti-terrorism laws, however, the edge has been especially sharp. Mr
   Brown insists that the Conservatives' opposition to his new policy is
   opportunistic. Since some Tory MPs privately agree with the
   government, his indignation is right as well as righteous. But the way
   the latest plans have been rushed out--before some inquiries designed
   to inform them are complete--casts doubt on his motives too. At least
   one of them may be a pressing desire to make a tabloid-friendly
   splash, to dispel the lacklustre impression created by the calamities
   of the past few weeks. The prospect of succeeding in Parliament where
   Mr Blair failed may also be a lure.

   Those unofficial explanations reflect the motives that have troubled
   Mr Brown's short premiership. These arose from the circumstances and
   timing of his succession. Mr Brown needed to distinguish himself from
   his predecessor, impress a jaundiced electorate and do it in hurry--or
   face being seen as a fag-end failure. But his clumsily urgent efforts
   to obviate that possibility, most obviously in the self-inflicted
   humiliation of the non-election, have instead made it more likely.
   Given the chance to expound on them, he has statesmanlike things to
   say about international affairs and thoughtful ones about the
   constitution. But just as his sensible thinking on terrorism has been
   overshadowed, so far his best ideas have scarcely got a hearing.

   Even if his worst electoral fears are realised, Mr Brown could make
   useful contributions in these fields, and others such as energy
   security, in the next 28 months. But if he can stick to the long
   perspective he can still avoid the Idiot's self-inflicted fate.
   Elections, after all, are more unsentimental referendums on the future
   than they are judgments on the past. Giving up the obsession with
   going beyond 28 days would be a good way for Mr Brown to signal a new,
   patient approach. Can he?


   New Labour is losing the support of business, and it matters

   ONLY in the City of London, where banks, shops and other employers
   choose the corporation that oversees the "square mile", can business
   say that taxation is truly based on representation. Elsewhere it has
   to hope the citizenry elects governments that are firm-friendly, and
   will resist the urge to nationalise, meddle or tax companies too much.
   But if business could vote, whom would it support?

   Surprisingly, as the party at least pretended to champion socialism
   until the early 1990s, the answer for most of the past decade would
   have been Labour. But that is now changing, and Gordon Brown, the
   prime minister, is fast discovering just how fickle businesspeople can
   be. They are trickling back to the Conservative Party, in earlier
   times their natural ally.

   This week, at the annual conference of the main business lobbying
   group, the CBI, the list of complaints was long, taking in red tape
   (too tangled), roads and airports (too congested) and taxes (too
   high). This much is standard: the CBI has members to recruit and dues
   to collect. Nor are such complaints made only against Labour
   governments. In 1980 the CBI chairman of the day threatened a
   "bare-knuckled fight" with Margaret Thatcher's government over
   interest rates and the price of sterling.

   But this year's conference was more sharply party-political than
   usual. Martin Broughton, chairman of British Airways and president of
   the CBI, not only criticised Mr Brown's policies and record but also
   praised David Cameron, the Conservative leader, for creating a strong
   "electable opposition" with views on business that are "well in synch
   with ours".

   Such words are heard with increasing frequency in British boardrooms
   these days. Many directors of top companies privately express their
   growing frustration with the government. Other business organisations,
   such as the Institute of Directors and British Chambers of Commerce,
   are also stepping up their attacks. Sensitive to shifting currents are
   the policy wonks at CEBR, an economic consultancy, who put out a paper
   this week that was catchily called "We need to start considering what
   a Tory Government might do".

   The strongest sign yet of a shift in sentiment is that even long-time
   business friends and supporters of Mr Brown and his party have become
   more openly critical. Some have shown a startling enthusiasm for
   change. Among them is Sir Ronald Cohen, a doyen of Britain's
   private-equity industry and long-time donor to the Labour Party. He
   said recently in a newspaper interview that there was "not much
   difference between the two parties" and that he would not mind if a
   Conservative government came to power.

   Why this shift, and why now? Cynics say it simply reflects the
   parties' changing fortunes. The Tories have not seen the inside of
   Downing Street since 1997; practicality counselled firms to back the
   winning horse. Now that political power is being seriously contested
   again, business may simply be placing its next bet.

   But there is more to it than that. Even before New Labour took office,
   it was busily buffing its pro-business credentials. Once in power the
   party both embraced the market and set the central bank free from
   politicians to set interest rates. Whether by skill or good fortune,
   Labour presided over a decade of low inflation, low interest rates and
   sustained economic growth. This was one of the main reasons for the
   party's electoral longevity.

   The drift away

   Three things explain why business support is draining away from
   Labour. First, its reputation for sound economic management has been
   damaged by its bungled handling of Northern Rock, a troubled mortgage
   lender, and by concerns about the slowing economy and housing market.
   Second, businesspeople suspect Labour has grown arrogant in power and
   no longer feels obliged to keep its side of the bargain struck a
   decade ago, especially with that friend of the rich, Tony Blair, out
   of the picture. Third, there is a growing sense of outrage at the vast
   sums the government has spent on the public sector to less than
   optimal effect, while the wealth-creating side of the economy has been
   weighed down with regulations and tax.

   Take the high-handed decision announced in October to raise
   capital-gains taxes to a flat 18% from an effective 10% on most
   business assets. Aimed at capturing some of the gains made by partners
   in private-equity firms, it is widely seen as an attack on small
   business. "The damage is in the signal it sends, which is that this is
   an economy that doesn't value entrepreneurs," says Arnaud de Meyer of
   the Judge Business School at Cambridge University.

   Taxing small businesspeople, who are mainly steadfast Tories, is
   unlikely to cost Mr Brown many votes. But John Curtice of Strathclyde
   University reckons public confidence in Labour as the party most
   trusted to run the economy, already declining, is likely to ebb faster
   as businesspeople air their doubts. A recent Populus poll shows the
   Tories well ahead on this point. Although business has no vote, in
   forfeiting its support, Mr Brown may well be scuppering his chances of
   re-election.


   Two pre-modern ailments are making a comeback

   AS BEFITS an industrialised country, Britain's public-health problems
   are those of wealth rather than poverty. But beneath headlines about
   fat, cigarettes and a national epidemic of drunkenness, two diseases
   that were believed vanquished decades ago are re-emerging. Both are
   linked to immigration.

   On December 28th the Department of Health (DoH) confirmed what doctors
   have long suspected: rickets seems to be on the rise. The
   disease--thought to have been eradicated in the 1950s--stunts growth
   and deforms the skeleton, characteristically causing bowed legs and
   worse.

   The other disease is tuberculosis, dimly remembered as an affliction
   of slum-dwellers and glamorous Victorian poets. Antibiotics and a
   national screening programme had all but wiped out "consumption" by
   the middle of the last century. Yet cases have been increasing since
   the mid-1980s. In 2000 6,323 were reported in Britain (excluding
   Scotland), or 11.7 for each 100,000 people; by 2006 that had risen to
   8,113, or 14.6 per 100,000, and the true number is thought to be
   higher.

   Migration is involved in the resurgence of both conditions, though in
   different ways. Rickets is usually caused by a lack of vitamin D,
   which is needed to absorb calcium to build bones. Most vitamin D is
   made when skin is exposed to sunlight. Not much sunshine is
   needed--around 15 minutes a day in summer--but obtaining it in
   Britain, with its grey climate, house-bound children and official
   warnings about skin cancer, can be tricky. North of around 52 degrees
   latitude (roughly, beyond Milton Keynes), the winter sun is too weak
   for vitamin D to be produced. Skin colour matters too: dark-skinned
   people require more sun. What scant data there are suggest that up to
   1 in 100 children from ethnic minorities may suffer from rickets.

   Whereas migrants from sunny countries may develop rickets after
   arriving in Britain, tuberculosis is a disease that often comes with
   them. Rates of infection are lowest among natives and highest among
   immigrants from Africa (see chart), where the disease is common in
   part because of the spread of AIDS, whose sufferers are particularly
   susceptible to infection. Tuberculosis is most common in the poorer
   areas of Britain's cities, which tend to have high immigrant
   populations and where poverty and deprivation erode resistance to the
   disease. Newham, a poor east London borough that is home to many
   immigrant families, has around 100 infections per 100,000 people, the
   highest rate in the country and comparable to China's figure.

   In theory, rickets is easy to cure: official advice is to get more
   sunshine and, for pregnant women and young children, to take vitamin D
   supplements (though only around a fifth of mothers heed it).
   Tuberculosis is harder to stamp out. Vaccinations, which used to be
   universal, have been reintroduced for children in high-risk areas.
   Immigrants from countries with the disease are offered screening when
   they arrive, although Chris Griffiths, a tuberculosis expert at Queen
   Mary, University of London, reckons the system is too leaky to catch
   all of them. Often those most at risk are hardest to reach. One
   drug-resistant strain has been circulating in Camden and Islington for
   five years, especially among homeless people and ex-prisoners. This
   has prompted suggestions that sufferers be detained in secure
   hospitals--a Victorian response to a Victorian disease.


   The super-casino gamble failed. What next?

   BLACKPOOL'S seafront is not the most tempting destination for a winter
   break. But the chill has not deterred one elderly couple, who have
   been coming once a fortnight from nearby Rochdale for more decades
   than they can remember. "It's the best place in England, this," they
   say. "But it could do with a lick of paint."

   Last week Blackpool narrowly missed out on a facelift worth £450m when
   it lost its bid to host Britain's first super-casino. An advisory
   panel chose nearby Manchester for the dubious honour instead. It
   surprised everyone, including the television crews who were waiting in
   Blackpool to film the joyous reaction that wasn't to be.

   "We feel mugged," says David Helliwell, the editor of the local
   Gazette. His staff are sifting through more than 2,000 letters from
   readers to pass on to Tessa Jowell, the culture secretary who endorsed
   the panel's decision, demanding that the recommendation be reversed.
   The area's four MPs are due to meet her soon too, though few expect
   her to change her mind. Nor is it likely that Parliament will overturn
   the decision.

   Most Britons are lukewarm about the super-casino, but in Blackpool it
   was seen as a lifeline. Less than two decades ago the Victorian
   working-class playground drew as many as 17m visitors a year, but
   these days it struggles to stay above 10m. Cheap package holidays to
   warmer climes sucked away many families in the 1980s, and big northern
   cities such as Leeds and Newcastle cornered the "weekend-break" market
   in the 1990s.

   Fewer tourists have meant fewer jobs. Between 1994 and 2005 the number
   of registered businesses in Blackpool slipped by 6%, though businesses
   across the country increased by 15%. Most of the victims were small
   guesthouses. Unemployment now stands at 7% and wages have sagged. In
   2002 the average Blackpudlian was paid 17% less than the average
   Briton; by 2006 the gap was 23%.

   Despite the dwindling numbers of visitors, Blackpool's infrastructure
   seems to have locked it into continuing dependence on tourism. Whole
   streets are given over to guesthouses (with 70,000 beds, Blackpool
   equals Madrid in capacity) and there is little space for new building
   (after Portsmouth, the borough is the most densely developed outside
   London). This is partly what makes the casino decision such a sore
   point, says Alan Cavill, head of development on Blackpool's council.
   Leisure tourism is the town's one strong suit--why give a big leisure
   attraction to a city such as Manchester that has many other options?

   Locals can take some cheer from a big lump of money that is going into
   developing Blackpool's surroundings. The seafront will be remodelled
   with £75m of government cash, plus £8m from the regional development
   agency to dress it up. With luck (and Blackpool is due some), a
   further £24m of lottery funding will provide the beach with a gaudy
   artistic show, which Mr Cavill promises will continue Blackpool's
   tradition of "challenging the boundaries of good taste". The seafront
   tramway is also due to be revamped.

   These projects should go some way towards providing the missing lick
   of paint. What remains to be found is a big chunk of private
   investment to get people into the town in the first place. A casino
   alternative remains elusive, but possible candidates include an indoor
   rainforest, a covered ski slope and a new branch of Legoland, a Danish
   theme-park chain.

   Whatever projects come to fruition, Blackpool landladies--legendarily
   tough--are finding ways to manage the decline. Pat Stokes, who runs
   the Mar-Ray guesthouse on Springfield Road, keeps her nine bedrooms
   full, thanks to her two new [3]websites. She is not bothered about the
   casino, she says; most of her customers are regulars. The traditional
   arcades are also wising up. Warwick Tunnicliffe, whose family has been
   in the amusements business since 1881, saw the writing on the wall in
   the 1980s and upped sticks from the touristy seafront to the town
   centre. Now, he reckons, 95% of the money in his slot machines comes
   from locals, sheltering him from seasonal ups and downs.

   New types of visitors are also helping to buoy Blackpool's economy.
   Along the promenade, bars and strip-clubs illustrate the rise of the
   lucrative stag- and hen-night market. Gay tourists have also proved a
   hit, as the rainbow flags running down Lord Street testify. Yet
   tradition endures: come lunchtime, Burger King, Bella Pasta and other
   modern pretenders are quiet. Everyone is in Harry Ramsden's, eating
   fish and chips.


   The meaning of Britain's favourite television programme



   IT IS hard to explain the enduring appeal of Bruce
   Forsyth--especially, perhaps, to anyone who isn't British. Mr Forsyth,
   who turns 80 next month, sports a silly toupee and an elongated chin.
   The jokes he makes in his high-camp nasal voice are too naff for
   reproduction in an upmarket newspaper. Yet Mr Forsyth is the
   improbable face of Britain's favourite television programme.

   Twelve million viewers saw him compere the finale of "Strictly Come
   Dancing" on December 22nd. The programme has water-cooler status in
   Britain, but is also a runaway hit abroad: the format has been
   licensed to 27 countries (and counting), from Chile to China, Russia
   to Australia, mostly under the name "Dancing with the Stars".
   Scandinavians and east Europeans are especially fanatical about it,
   but Americans are keen too. All that makes it and Mr Forsyth telling
   indicators of global entertainment trends and, by comparison,
   Britain's peculiarities.

   Not all the indications are happy ones. Though few are as contagious
   as this programme, Britain is the world's biggest exporter of
   television formats. Many of the top ones combine the same game
   show/reality TV elements, in increasingly baroque combinations:
   participants who jostle for viewers' affection by singing, cooking,
   having sex, eating grubs, etc; presenters and pantomime judges to
   oversee their humiliation; and premium-rate voting by the audience to
   determine the winners. All these hybrids and spin-offs can make it
   seem that viewers' choices are contracting, even as the number of
   channels multiplies.

   The latter-day gladiators in many of these shows are "celebrities": in
   "Strictly", as Mr Forsyth's programme is known among its British
   devotees, they are paired with professional dancers to compete against
   each other. Different sorts of people, it seems, count as celebrities
   in different places. In America, for example, one of them was an
   entrepreneur (not very likely in Britain). The last British series
   featured a balding ex-snooker player (not very likely in America).
   Many of the British contestants previously appeared in the sort of
   miserabilist soap operas, set in launderettes and fish-and-chip shops,
   which mystify American visitors. But some are has-beens and
   never-beens who gain celebrity status by appearing in programmes like
   this one. This model of celebrity--a shabby, evanescent thing,
   confected and disposable, harmless maybe but a bit depressing--has
   also been developed in Britain, and seems to be spreading too.

   For all that, there is something heartening about the way the
   programme has galvanised the international public. Heartening and--for
   others in the marketing business who fail to generate quite the same
   excitement, such as politicians--instructive.

   To see you, nice

   During his recent spell as acting leader of the Liberal Democrats,
   Vince Cable made some famously witty attacks on Gordon Brown. But the
   highlight of his stint, Mr Cable said when it ended, was dancing with
   the eventual winner of Strictly, even if it was "infinitely more
   nerve-wracking than standing up in the House of Commons". Politicians,
   he added, could learn a lot from such TV shows, which motivate
   millions of viewers to vote for their favourite performers, and pay
   for the privilege (Mr Brown, meanwhile, says he prefers watching
   sport).

   Part of the lesson may be that, whereas politics is remote and
   political parties confusingly similar, here the choice is clear, each
   vote counts equally, and the impact of voting is tangible and
   immediate. Like the renegade Victorian juries who compassionately
   acquitted pickpockets, British audiences tend to reward sweet if
   patently unco-ordinated underdogs while disposing of contestants who
   are too obviously trying to win. Mr Cable's victorious dance partner
   was an ex-pop star, who in one episode was brought tea and cake by her
   grannies.

   A facile conclusion might be that real elections should be conducted
   by phone, text message and other new media, like television voting.
   Yet Strictly's success probably rests less on its modernity than on
   its old-fashionedness. It is, at bottom, a cheesy variety show
   camouflaged as reality-TV. Beneath the razzmatazz and interactive
   paraphernalia, its central ingredient--as improbable as Mr Forsyth--is
   the dancing itself. Because of the programme's contagious spread, tens
   of millions of people around the world are newly fluent in the arcane
   vocabulary of samba, paso doble, cha-cha-cha and one-handed lifts
   (rather as obscure sports such as diving and curling suddenly become
   mainstream interests during the Olympics).

   Dancing, of course, is in part a proxy for sex--and in the case of
   some of the contestants, apparently a prologue to it as well. The
   sequinned costumes--said by some carpers to be much less snazzy in
   Britain than in America--are long on fake-tanned flesh and short
   everywhere else. But the programme also offers something almost
   equally primal that, in Britain at least, may help to explain its
   draw: a sense of community, of being part of a national event--a
   feeling that television used to provide routinely before viewers'
   attention was fragmented. In Britain, where social atomisation is
   perhaps more keenly felt than elsewhere, it also offers Mr Forsyth.

   He started on the stage during the second world war, tap-dancing and
   playing the accordion as "Boy Bruce, the mighty Atom", and still sings
   and tap-dances in the amateurish, have-a-go way that British audiences
   love. He has made a couple of forays to America, where his innocent
   innuendoes and music-hall style rather flopped. But on his home turf,
   Mr Forsyth and the meaningless catchphrases he has developed during
   his 50 years as a television host (sample: "Nice to see you--to see
   you, nice!"), are cherished precisely because they are throwbacks. He
   and "Strictly" captivate the millions of Britons who long for some
   things, at least, to stay the same, and whose secret idea of heaven is
   still dancing the Viennese waltz in a seaside hotel.


   A boost for renewables, but nuclear power takes centre stage


   "I THINK there'd be plenty of support round here for a new nuclear
   plant," says Colonel George Smythe, chairman of a nuclear-power
   discussion group at Dungeness in Kent. Two giant atomic power plants
   dominate the flat shingle shoreline of this blustery bit of the
   Channel coast. Although the older Dungeness A was shut down for
   decommissioning in 2006, the plants provide hundreds of jobs in an
   area without many other big employers. When Mr Smythe asked residents
   what should replace the closed power station, the most popular answer
   was a new one (although a nature reserve came a close second).

   Such enthusiasm will be welcomed by Gordon Brown. On January 10th his
   government unveiled its much-delayed new energy policy, the
   centrepiece of which was a decision to support the building of new
   nuclear-power stations.

   Energy policy in Britain is under pressure from the imminent closure
   of many coal- and nuclear-fired power stations, increasing dependence
   on foreign suppliers (as North Sea oil and gas reserves dwindle) and
   worries about climate change. For Mr Brown, nuclear power ticks all
   the right boxes. It produces little carbon dioxide, the technology is
   well-developed and the uranium fuel can be obtained from stable,
   friendly countries such as Canada or Australia. Although ministers
   refuse to say how many new plants they want, most observers reckon
   that they hope existing stations will at least be replaced. Nuclear
   power now provides about 20% of Britain's electricity, and all but one
   of the ten remaining stations will be shut by 2023.

   The pro-nuclear decision was both widely trailed and controversial.
   Ministers planned to publish the bill last year, but when an
   environmental pressure group won a court case arguing that the
   government's consultation on nuclear power had been misleading, the
   bill was shelved and the consultation re-run. Polls show a modest rise
   in public support for nuclear power in recent years, but there is
   still anxious uncertainty over where to bury the waste.

   Economics may prove even trickier than politics. Formally, there is no
   need for the government to give its blessing to new nuclear stations:
   there is no law banning companies from building them now. But nuclear
   power has a troubled history in Britain. Thanks to planning delays,
   Sizewell B, Britain's newest nuclear plant, took 12 years to build.
   The finances of nuclear stations--with their huge upfront capital
   costs--make such delays very costly, and leave plants vulnerable to
   fluctuations in power prices. In 2003 low prices meant that British
   Energy, which operates Britain's more modern reactors, had to be
   rescued with £3 billion of public money.

   Ministers are keen to avoid further bailouts, and want new nuclear
   plants to be privately financed. State help will be limited to
   reforming the lengthy licensing process, streamlining the planning
   system and levying a charge on nuclear operators to pay for
   decommissioning and waste storage. But despite encouraging noises from
   power firms such as EDF, a French company, and E.ON, a German one, not
   everyone is convinced the sums add up. Some note that assurances about
   fully private funding have been replaced by statements that nuclear
   operators will pay their "full share" of costs--hardly the same.

   Not all the news was nuclear. The bill also sets rules for building
   more natural-gas storage (as imports replace dwindling domestic
   supplies) and for developing technology to capture and sequester
   carbon emissions from fossil-fuel plants. Britain has much potential:
   natural salt caverns and depleted gas fields could store decades of
   emissions from Europe.

   There was some good news for renewable fans, too, with the reform of
   the government's main subsidy for electricity from renewable sources.
   The existing scheme awards the same payments to all technologies. As a
   result, virtually all the money has flowed into onshore wind power,
   which, as the cheapest renewable technology, offers the biggest
   profits. But onshore wind has run into political difficulties of its
   own. Windy spots tend to be beauty spots, and complaints from
   residents have made it difficult to build turbines. That is one reason
   why renewables account for just 3% of British electricity-generating
   capacity, compared with 28% in Germany and 16% in Spain. Under the new
   plan, developing more expensive technologies (such as offshore wind or
   tidal power) will attract more money.

   Some greens argue that building new nuclear stations means scaling
   back the government's renewable-energy goals. Documents leaked last
   year suggested that Mr Brown wanted to water down Britain's commitment
   to a European target that 20% of all energy used must come from
   renewables by 2020. But others are keen to extend an olive branch to
   the nuclear industry. Gordon Edge, an economist at the British Wind
   Energy Association, dismisses talk of crowding out. "Building nuclear
   power plants doesn't have to mean less money for renewables," he says.
   "After all, we have a common enemy."


   A symbolic measure will make little difference to violent crime 


   EVERY summer, in the Cambridge suburb of Romsey Town, a man emerges
   from his house dressed from head to foot in black and clutching a
   katana, a curved Japanese sword. Fortunately for his neighbours, the
   target of his ire is the weeds that have grown up in his garden. Half
   an hour later, the undergrowth reduced to stalks, he goes back inside.

   Not everyone is so harmlessly eccentric. On December 10th a man
   appeared at an Inverness court charged with attempting murder with a
   similar weapon. On the same day, to much fanfare, the Home Office said
   it would add "samurai swords" to a list of exotic-sounding proscribed
   weapons. These include butterfly knives, blowpipes and shuriken
   (throwing stars). It is already illegal to carry bladed weapons;
   adding the swords to the list will make it illegal to import or sell
   them.

   The crackdown is the latest attempt to calm worries about violent
   crime. Although such crime has fallen overall, attacks by strangers
   are as common as ever and getting nastier. A string of teenagers have
   been slain (with knives or guns) in London, Liverpool and Manchester.
   Laws have been tightened, penalties for possessing knives increased
   and teachers given powers to search their pupils.

   But the latest measure looks largely symbolic, says Richard Garside, a
   criminologist at King's College, London. Despite the gory headlines,
   sword attacks are rare. A few famous cases stand out, such as the
   killing of a Liberal Democrat councillor in 2000. Police reckon there
   have been around 80 attacks since 2003, with five people killed. In
   2006, by contrast, 210 died from gunshot wounds alone. No numbers are
   kept for knife deaths, but estimates of attacks range from 22,000 to
   60,000 a year.

   In any case, the precedents for a ban are not encouraging: gun crime
   has risen dramatically since legislation following the Dunblane
   massacre in 1996 made handguns of all kinds illegal. The sword ban is
   less swingeing, since exceptions will be made for martial-arts clubs
   and collectors. And it seems oddly specific: only "single-edged,
   curved blades" will be prohibited, leaving straight-bladed or
   double-edged weapons untouched.

   The few criminals who enjoy swordplay may simply change their
   preferences. The same websites that advertise "samurai swords" for
   sale often feature similar, but slightly smaller, "ninja
   swords"--which, with their straight blades, may be a good substitute.


   A loophole comes under political attack

   LITTLE riles the British more than unfair play. Most vexing of late is
   the realisation that ever more wealthy foreigners (and quite a few
   natives to boot) are using a crafty loophole to avoid paying tax on
   foreign income and the gains from selling assets held abroad.

   In most countries residents are taxed on their worldwide income.
   Residence is assessed by objective criteria: how long someone has
   lived in the country, for instance. But in Britain foreigners may
   claim residence and citizenship yet avoid paying tax on foreign income
   and capital gains by declaring themselves "non-domiciled", asserting a
   "long-term connection" with another country.

   The issue spilled into open political battle on October 1st, when
   George Osborne, the Tory shadow chancellor, proposed a flat tax of
   £25,000 ($50,000) a year on everyone claiming the exemption. The new
   tax, he said, would fund the £3.5 billion cost of cutting the burdens
   of inheritance tax and stamp duty, a tax levied on property
   transactions. Mr Osborne's crackdown looks timely: resentment about
   the rule has been building for many months, for two reasons.

   The first is that an anachronism which once seemed to apply only to a
   few Greek shipowners or foreign oilmen is now finding wider use among
   the lawyers and bankers who keep the City of London's wheels turning.
   In 2002 about 65,000 people were non-domiciled residents. By the last
   count, in 2005, that had grown to 112,000. The Conservative Party
   thinks the figure may now be as high as 150,000.

   The second reason is that the loophole, originally meant to apply only
   to foreign income, is now used to shelter earnings that would
   otherwise be considered British. Private-equity moguls, for example,
   can arrange to hold their personal investments in British takeover
   targets through offshore trusts, thus reducing to zero what little tax
   liability other loopholes left them with.

   Mr Osborne may be optimistic in estimating that his measure would
   raise £3.5 billion (the Labour Party argues it will produce just
   £650m) but perhaps not by all that much. Bill Dodwell, head of tax
   policy at Deloitte, an accounting firm, reckons the figure is not a
   million miles from the mark. Others argue for a more nuanced approach.
   Caroline Garnham, a lawyer, says Britain could learn from Switzerland,
   where foreigners negotiate how much tax they will pay in exchange for
   the right to live there.

   Still, debating the detail of a reform is easier than pressing through
   change. One reason why Gordon Brown has done nothing over the past
   decade is his reluctance to weaken the City of London by driving away
   foreign financial talent. Yet it is remarkable that the Tories--the
   historical party of business--should take the initiative. Tory
   strategists believe that the non-domicile rule is so patently unfair
   that the electorate will turn a deaf ear to Labour's attempt to
   undermine their sums.


   Energy: Using photosynthesis to capture exhaust gases from power
   plants could reduce the emissions produced by coal-fired stations

   FOR its supporters, the idea of growing single-celled algae on exhaust
   gas piped from power stations is the ultimate in recycling. For its
   detractors, it is a mere pipe dream. Whoever turns out to be right,
   though, it is an intriguing idea: instead of releasing the carbon
   dioxide produced by burning fossil fuels into the atmosphere, why not
   recapture it by photosynthesis? The result could then be turned into
   biodiesel (since many species of algae store their food reserves as
   oil), or even simply dried and fed back into the power station. Of
   course, if it were really that easy, someone would have done it
   already. But although no one has yet commercialised the technology,
   several groups are trying.

   One of them is GS CleanTech, which has developed a bioreactor based on
   a patent held by a group of scientists at the Ohio Coal Research
   Centre, at the University of Ohio. The GS CleanTech bioreactor uses a
   parabolic mirror to funnel sunlight into fibre-optic cables that carry
   the light to acrylic "glow plates" inside the reactor. These diffuse
   the light over vertical sheets of polyester that form the platform on
   which the algae grow. Eventually the polyester is unable to support
   the weight of the algae, and they fall off into a collection duct
   positioned underneath.

   GreenFuel Technologies, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, has a
   different approach. Its reactor is composed of a series of clear
   tubes, each with a second, opaque tube nested inside. This arrangement
   makes it possible to bubble the exhaust gas down through the outer
   compartment and then bubble it back up through the opaque middle. The
   bubbling gas causes turbulence and circulates the algae around the
   reactor. The constant shift between light and darkness as the algal
   cells circulate increases the amount of carbon that they fix, probably
   by promoting chemical reactions that occur naturally only at night.

   A preliminary test of GreenFuel's reactor design, which was performed
   at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's campus power plant,
   suggested that it can remove 75% of the carbon dioxide from a power
   station's exhaust. A more serious test is now being carried out by
   Arizona Public Service, that state's power utility, at its Redhawk
   plant. Another test is planned in Louisiana.

   GreenFuel claims that over the course of a year, a hectare (2.5 acres)
   of its reactors should be able to produce 30,000 litres (8,000
   American gallons) of oil, which could be used as biodiesel, and enough
   carbohydrates to be fermented into 9,000 litres of ethanol, which can
   be used as a substitute for petrol.

   There is, of course, no free lunch. As Rob Carlson of the University
   of Washington points out, if money is to be made selling products made
   from exhaust gas, then that gas goes from being waste matter to being
   a valuable resource. Far from giving it away, power companies might
   even start charging for it. That would, indeed, be a reversal of
   fortune.


   British troops look for a face-saving way out of Iraq

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                         Ready or not, they are in charge

   "I HATE Iraq. I wish we had never gone to the place," said Winston
   Churchill in 1926 when, as chancellor of the exchequer, he had to pay
   the cost of holding on to the violently rebellious territory. The
   British government, and much of the public, no doubt feels the same
   about today's military venture in Iraq, which has cost around £5
   billion ($10 billion) and the lives of more than 170 soldiers since
   2003.

   Having entered the country uninvited, the army is leaving unlamented.
   The handover ceremony in the departure lounge of Basra airport
   (Britain's last base) on December 16th, when Basra province was
   transferred to Iraqi security control, summed it up: the British are
   no longer safe in the city, and have booked their tickets out of the
   country.

   It was very different in the early days of the occupation of southern
   Iraq when British soldiers patrolled in soft berets, in contrast with
   the Americans in Baghdad. But as Iraq's violence spread southwards,
   and Basra turned into an urban shooting gallery, British troops also
   had to don their helmets and drive in armoured vehicles.

   Their battle now is to try to avoid the perception of defeat.
   Commanders claim that security has improved enough in Basra for Iraqi
   forces to take charge. Attacks against British forces have declined,
   but that is largely because of a shortage of targets after British
   troops withdrew from the city centre to the airport in September. A
   six-month ceasefire declared by Muqtada al-Sadr, the powerful radical
   cleric, has helped to reduce violence.

   For Iraqis, though, Basra remains a violent place, with scores of
   people killed every month. Major-General Jalil Khalaf, the police
   chief, complained of being left in a sea of troubles. Rival Shia
   militias with murky links to Iran compete violently for control and
   terrorise the population--particularly women deemed immodest, barbers
   and those selling alcohol.

   For the moment there are no open battles. That is good enough for
   Britain to accelerate its withdrawal, drawing the number of troops
   down from 4,500 to 2,500 next spring. A recent report from MPs asked
   whether such a small contingent could do anything more than defend
   itself. All British troops, except special forces and aircraft
   supporting the Americans, will probably be out of Iraq by the end of
   2008.

   The British army's ability to wage irregular warfare has been found
   wanting, despite the folk memory of centuries of colonial policing and
   decades in Northern Ireland. It would be a mistake, some generals say,
   for commanders to believe the convenient fiction of their success and
   assume they have nothing to learn.

   Confronted with rising violence, the Americans adopted a new
   counter-insurgency doctrine and reinforced their forces. American
   units now deploy for 15 months, compared with six months for the
   British. Conditions in Basra and Baghdad are different, say British
   officials. But the more important difference may be the mindsets in
   London and Washington; the British accepted that events were beyond
   their control, whereas the Americans acted to regain the initiative.

   The Pentagon is worried about the prospect of a vacuum in southern
   Iraq, through which its supply convoys from Kuwait must pass. However,
   the gap between the allies may narrow as America's "surge" in Iraq
   ebbs away. American commanders may also declare victory and withdraw,
   at least from some outlying provinces.

   Britain's departure is hardly graceful, but it would come as little
   surprise to Churchill. It was he, after all, who said that staying in
   Iraq was like "living on an ungrateful volcano".


   The gap between high-flown rhetoric and painful reality on the cancer
   ward


   "IF YOU were diagnosed with kidney cancer tomorrow, after you had
   stopped crying the first thing you'd do is type `kidney cancer' into
   Google," says Nick James, an oncologist who specialises in the
   disease. "The first thing you'd discover on your computer is that
   there are new drugs that could help. The second thing is that the NHS
   won't pay for them."

   Rationing in the National Health Service is nothing new, but those
   making the hard choices used to do so behind the scenes. The internet
   has now made clear what they are passing up, and at an awkward time. A
   tidal wave of costly new drugs is about to break: around 40 will be
   licensed to treat just cancer in the next few years, says Karol
   Sikora, a cancer specialist at Imperial College London. The National
   Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE), which decides
   whether treatments are sufficiently cost-effective for the NHS, will,
   he thinks, reject most or all of them.

   Patients can understand that some drugs cost too much for the taxpayer
   to finance. What they cannot understand is being discouraged from
   paying for those drugs themselves. Yet this is becoming commonplace.
   The Department of Health has decided that a patient who pays for part
   of his treatment thereby chooses to become a private patient for all
   of it. It quotes one of the NHS's founding principles--that care is
   "free at the point of use"--to support a ban on patients topping up
   their treatment, which would mean cash changing hands.

   Some patients are refusing to take no for an answer. Halliwells, a
   Manchester law firm, is representing Colette Mills and Debbie Hirst,
   two cancer patients who are demanding the right to remain NHS patients
   while buying better medicine than the NHS provides. Both want to take
   Avastin, an expensive new anti-cancer drug that is not sanctioned by
   NICE, as well as their NHS chemotherapy. But they have not been
   allowed to pay the £4,000-a-month marginal cost of doing so. Paying
   privately for all their treatment would cost each around £10,000 a
   month.

   Savvy patients will seek out consultants willing to co-operate in
   sidestepping the ban on co-payments. One specialist, who does not want
   to be named for fear of causing trouble for his hospital's managers,
   describes how he does it. If he thinks a patient would benefit from a
   drug the NHS will not provide and the patient wants to pay, he gets a
   colleague to write a private prescription for it. While he continues
   to administer the NHS-approved treatment, the extra drug is dispensed
   by a private company and administered at home.

   Even if Ms Mills and Ms Hirst do not succeed, there will be other
   challenges. Pressure will also come from plans in the pipeline to
   allow EU citizens to seek treatment abroad, paid for by their own
   country's health-care system. These could allow patients to receive
   the full treatment they desire in a foreign hospital and be reimbursed
   by the NHS for that portion it would have provided. One private health
   insurer, Western Provident Association, is so confident that topping
   up NHS cancer care will become commonplace that it has launched a
   policy covering cancer drugs the NHS will not pay for.

   Some say that, by allowing wealth to buy health, patient top-ups
   threaten the founding principles of the NHS. That is overblown: a
   report published in 2007 by Doctors for Reform, a pressure group,
   detailed how co-payment is already commonplace, with patients paying
   or part-paying for prescriptions, hearing aids and spectacles, or to
   avoid lengthy waits for consultations or scans, among other things.
   More substantive is the charge that co-payment threatens the
   cross-subsidies inherent in a taxpayer-funded service: if the working
   well know that, should the worst happen, they can top up their NHS
   care, they will be less willing to pay high taxes to fund the best
   care for everyone.

   The controversy is bubbling up at an awkward time for the prime
   minister, Gordon Brown. He is attempting to regain political momentum
   by painting a compelling picture of the future of the NHS. A new
   constitution will set out patients' rights and responsibilities--but
   talk of responsibilities (exercising, giving up smoking and the like)
   will flop if patients think their rights are at the whim of
   health-care managers. And a pledge by Mr Brown on January 7th that new
   screening programmes will mean earlier detection of illnesses sits
   oddly alongside denying treatment for illnesses already diagnosed.


   Transport: The untold story of a failed attempt to introduce electric
   buses in London a century ago offers a cautionary technological tale

   ON MONDAY July 15th 1907 an unusual bus picked up its first passengers
   at London's Victoria Station before gliding smoothly off to Liverpool
   Street. It was the beginning of what was then the world's biggest
   trial of battery-powered buses. The London Electrobus Company had high
   hopes that this quiet and fume-free form of transport would replace
   the horse. At its peak, the firm had a fleet of 20 buses. But despite
   being popular with passengers the service collapsed in 1909. The
   history books imply that the collapse was caused by technical
   drawbacks and a price war. It was not. The untold story is that the
   collapse was caused by systematic fraud that set back the cause of
   battery buses by a hundred years.

                                                           Hulton Archive

                               Hulton Archive

                           Can it be a motor bus?

   Indeed, the London electrobus trial remained the largest for the rest
   of the 20th century. Only recently has American interest in keeping
   city air clean encouraged trials on anything approaching the same
   scale. For the past 15 years Chattanooga has had a dozen battery
   buses. Today the world's biggest fleet, excluding minibuses, is in
   Santa Barbara, California. The city has 20 buses and is buying five
   more.

   The replacement of horses by internal-combustion engines may now look
   to have been inevitable, but it certainly did not seem so at the time.
   At the beginning of 1906 there were only 230 motor buses in London.
   They were widely reviled for their evil smells and noise. At any one
   time a quarter of them were off the road for repairs. In 1907 The
   Economist predicted "the triumph of the horse". The future of
   public-transport technology was up for grabs.

   The paradox at the heart of the electrobus story is that the
   electrobuses themselves were well engineered and well managed. All
   battery buses have a limited range because of the weight of their
   batteries. The electrobus needed 1.5 tonnes of lead-acid batteries to
   carry its 34 passengers. It could travel 60km (38 miles) on one
   charge. So at lunchtime the buses went to a garage in Victoria and
   drove up a ramp. The batteries, slung under the electrobus, were
   lowered onto a trolley and replaced with fresh ones. It all took three
   minutes. "It just goes to show there's nothing new under the sun,"
   says Mark Hairr, of the Advanced Transportation Technology Institute.
   "That's almost exactly what we do here in Chattanooga. And we knew
   nothing about this."

   In April 1906 the London Electrobus Company floated on the
   stockmarket. It wanted £300,000 to put 300 buses on the streets of the
   capital. On the first day the flotation raised £120,000 and the share
   offer was on course to be fully subscribed. But the next day some
   awkward questions surfaced. The firm was buying rights to a patent for
   £20,000 (£7.5m, or $15m, in today's money) from the Baron de Martigny.
   But the patent was old and had nothing to do with battery buses. It
   was a scam. Investors asked for their money back, and the firm had to
   return £80,000. The investors would have been even less impressed had
   they known the true identity of the "Baron", who was a Canadian
   music-hall artist.

   Martigny was only the front man. The mastermind behind this and a
   clutch of subsequent scams was Edward Lehwess, a German lawyer and
   serial con-artist with a taste for fast cars and expensive champagne.
   After this initial fiasco the London Electrobus Company struggled to
   raise money. But Lehwess had set up a network of front companies to
   siphon off its funds. Chief among these was the Electric Vehicle
   Company of West Norwood, which built the buses.

   The London Electrobus Company paid the Electric Vehicle Company over
   £31,000 in advance for 50 buses. Only 20 were ever delivered. The
   buses were hugely overpriced. Eventually the London Electrobus Company
   went into liquidation. Even then the scams continued. Lehwess bought
   eight buses for £800 from the liquidators and sold them to Brighton
   for £3,500--a mark-up of 340%--where they ran for another six years.
   At the time, the life of a motor bus was measured in months.

   Whether the fraud was truly a tipping point for electric vehicles is,
   of course, impossible to say. But it is a commonplace of
   innovation--from railway gauges to semiconductors to software--that
   the "best" technology is not always the most successful. Once an
   industry standard has been established, it is hard to displace. If
   Lehwess and Martigny had not pulled their scam when they did, modern
   cities might be an awful lot cleaner.


   Equality for low-paid women means some will lose their jobs

   IT IS not just teachers' pay that is putting pressure on school
   budgets as government largesse runs out. An attempted raid on school
   reserves in the name of sexual equality could make things worse. For
   years councils have paid cleaners, dinner ladies and teaching
   assistants less than men for jobs that are now regarded as requiring
   similar skills. That will no longer be possible.

   The saga started in 1997, when local councils thrashed out an
   agreement with unions to review wages and start paying workers in
   female-dominated jobs as much as those in male-dominated ones. (School
   cleaners, for example, mostly women, have long earned less than street
   cleaners, who are mostly men.) The process was supposed to have been
   finished by mid-2007, but fewer than half of all councils had
   completed even their reviews by the year's end.

   Some 700,000 local-government workers have probably been treated
   unfairly. Closing the gap in wages and reaching some agreement about
   the six years of back pay to which women may be entitled will cost
   councils at least £3 billion, says the Local Government Association.
   The bill could be even higher if it proves impossible to negotiate
   union-wide deals. Large numbers of women might then go to employment
   tribunals: 50,000 cases are waiting to be heard.

   The battle has pitched union sisters against their brothers. Some of
   the latter will see their pay reduced to match that of women doing
   comparable jobs. One group of women has already taken their union to a
   tribunal, alleging that a desire to protect men's jobs and pay led it
   to pull its punches in talks with councils. They lost, but no-win,
   no-fee lawyers are touting for more such business.

   Other natural alliances have also frayed. On January 14th the Equality
   and Human Rights Commission withdrew its support for another set of
   women who want the council they work for to equalise pay right away,
   rather than protecting men's pay and closing the gap gradually.
   Further support for their case would be "throwing petrol on this legal
   forest fire", says the commission's boss, Trevor Phillips.

   Whitehall has washed its hands of the problem. It has allowed councils
   to borrow more than normal to help them pay, although nowhere near
   enough to cover the bill. So, noting that schools employ around 30% of
   the staff in line for compensation, councils are eyeing schools'
   reserves covetously. Head teachers are outraged. Most reserves are
   earmarked for refurbishments, they say, and it was councils, not
   schools, that set the discriminatory pay rates.

   With teachers' pay protected by national agreements and a legal
   requirement to put a trained teacher in front of every class, other
   staff will have to bear the brunt of school funding cuts. Some
   low-paid women may get their compensation along with their redundancy
   notices. And if the number of teaching assistants plummets, so too
   will any hope for education that is truly "personalised" to suit each
   child.


   New plans for detaining suspects have been rushed out. Why the hurry?

   "A MORE comprehensively consensual approach than we have ever taken
   before" was promised six months ago, when the government announced its
   fifth counter-terrorism bill in eight years. Previous bills had been
   piloted through Parliament at top speed, dividing MPs and in some
   cases leading to legislation that breached human-rights laws. This
   time a soothing consultation period and cross-party co-operation would
   prevent squabbling and mistakes, ministers pledged.

   The consensus approach now seems to be on the rocks. On December 6th
   the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, called an emergency press conference
   to announce plans to hold suspected terrorists for longer before
   charging them, a power long coveted by the government and opposed by
   other parties. Opposition MPs, who say they were shown the detailed
   plans no earlier than journalists were, accused the government of
   "pig-headed stubbornness". On the contrary, Ms Smith retorted, it is
   they who have refused to compromise.

   Sensing widespread hostility to a permanent increase in the current
   28-day limit, the government now proposes to give the home secretary
   the power to increase it temporarily, subject to various safeguards.
   The new limit would be 42 days: it could be invoked for just two
   months and only with the approval of police, prosecutors and
   Parliament. A judge would also have to agree to each suspect's
   continued detention each week. The temporary nature of the extension
   makes it similar to the emergency powers already available under the
   Civil Contingencies Act 2004, Ms Smith claims.

   The new plan has a whiff of hasty drafting about it. One odd feature
   is that even if Parliament voted against a 42-day extension, it would
   remain in place for a month. Given that a suspect would probably have
   been held for a couple of weeks before the extension was invoked, he
   could end up being detained for a full 42 days despite Parliament's
   opposition.

   Another worry is that MPs would not be permitted to hear evidence that
   could prejudice a subsequent trial, so their vote would in effect be
   blind. Liberty, a civil-rights outfit, points out too that whereas
   existing emergency powers can be struck down by a court if they are
   applied illegally, the proposed new powers would be "primary
   legislation" and therefore immune to judicial review. Reports by the
   parliamentary Home Affairs and Human Rights committees on December
   13th and 14th found no reason to go beyond 28 days.

   The puzzle is why the government has provoked this fight now. The
   doughty Ms Smith has plenty on her plate already, including a tussle
   with the police over a miserly pay settlement that has provoked
   demands from some officers for the right to strike. The prime
   minister, Gordon Brown, himself buffeted by bad news lately, may have
   his own reasons for moving early on the matter (see [3]Bagehot). But
   there may be even shorter-term reasons. Ms Smith was expected to
   announce her plans after the Home Affairs Committee had made its
   recommendations; by pre-empting its report she stole a little of the
   initiative and perhaps hoped to bounce MPs into backing a version of
   her plan.

   If the proposals make it into the counter-terrorism bill, which is
   expected early next year, Mr Brown will need to quash dissent in his
   own ranks if it is to pass. An attempt by his predecessor to extend
   the limit to 90 days earned Tony Blair one of his two parliamentary
   defeats. On December 11th Frank Dobson, a normally loyal Labour MP,
   held a meeting with rebellious colleagues to discuss mounting an
   insurrection. Only a dozen turned up, but plotters claim that resolve
   elsewhere is firmer than expected. Optimists note that Ms Smith's
   announcement of the proposals was made in a press conference rather
   than in the House of Commons, which may mean that they are not yet set
   in stone. They must hope to face her down before her plan becomes part
   of a bill; if they fail, a bigger showdown looms.


   What the funding scandal really tells us about Britain, its Jews and
   immigrants in general



   DAVID ABRAHAMS; Jon Mendelsohn; Lord Levy (also known as "Lord
   Cashpoint"). Notice anything funny about those names, and some of the
   others at the heart of the previous and present furores over political
   funding? Maybe--and ideally--you don't. But some people have spotted a
   theme. A front page in theDaily Telegraph featured a photograph of Mr
   Abrahams--who donated more than £660,000 ($1.4m) to the Labour Party
   using illegitimate intermediaries--shaking hands with the Israeli
   ambassador. The nudge-nudge headline was "Hunt for the `real donor'".
   An intrepid columnist in the Independent dared, as she put it, to
   incur "the wrath of Moses" by questioning the involvement of the
   "shape-shifter" Mr Abrahams and the others with a pro-Israel lobbying
   group.

   Britain's discomforted Jewish community has definitely noticed. "A
   second `Jewish scandal'" was the nervous headline in last week's
   Jewish Chronicle. But the interesting thing about the Jewish
   connection to these episodes is probably not the conspiracy imagined
   in a few fevered gentile minds. It is rather the insight they may
   offer into a different sort of anxiety, another kind of suspected
   conspiracy--one which may also exist more in imagination than in fact,
   but is important nonetheless.

   Macher or nebekh?

   Motive is often difficult to fathom. Acts that look virtuous crumble
   under scrutiny; charity comes to look like moral self-aggrandisement
   or self-interest. In the case of Mr Abrahams's donations, there have
   been unsubstantiated hints that he was hoping for a more tangible
   payback, such as a peerage or favouritism for his businesses. Even he
   may not know precisely why he gave so much and in the manner that he
   did.

   But a little digging in his native north-east suggests that the
   nudge-nudge view of him (it is worse online) is wide of the mark. Mr
   Abrahams was apparently known as "Podge" at school and, later, as
   "Daft David" in the town-hall circles that he tried unsuccessfully to
   penetrate. He was the only child of a respected father; when the
   father died, Mr Abrahams was reluctant to release the body for burial.
   Though not all of his dealings seem to have been completely straight,
   he is seen less as a Machiavel than as a fantasist: in Yiddish
   parlance, less a macher (a big-shot) than a nebekh (someone to be
   pitied). Still, odd though he may be, in his need to be seen, and see
   himself, in the company of the powerful, he seems to epitomise a
   common syndrome: common among Jewish men of his generation and older,
   and among immigrants to Britain in general.

   "It appears", remarks one observer of Anglo-Jewry, "that the ambition
   of the well-to-do and rising immigrant community soars after some kind
   of official dignity." That was written in 1900, in the middle of the
   great wave of immigration responsible for most of Britain's current
   Jewish population. Like Mr Abrahams, who gives money to universities
   but did not go to one himself, most Jews in Britain then had little
   chance to distinguish themselves through their careers or in high
   office. Instead, many sought--like Mr Abrahams's father, once Lord
   Mayor of Newcastle--to do so in local politics or societies. The same
   urge for recognition, for an outward show of arrival and belonging,
   still grips some Jews, and many other newcomers, today.

   Why? A century ago anti-Semitism was widespread: Britain's first
   immigration laws were introduced in 1905 to slow the influx of
   impoverished Jews (the folk memory of that poverty helps to explain
   many Jews' philanthropic streak). But the view of modern Britain as
   rampantly anti-Semitic, which sometimes features in American
   narratives of European decline, and in the scaremongering of some
   British-Jewish columnists, is wildly overblown. Anti-Semitism still
   exists: in the refectories of certain public schools, on the far
   right, among some Muslims, and in the tropes and Fagin allusions for
   which some journalists lazily reach. But it can also be found among
   Montana survivalists, in Connecticut country clubs and in the Nation
   of Islam.

   The truth is that Britain today is one of the best places to be
   Jewish, ever. Jews no longer need to camouflage themselves against
   prejudice; nor do they bump up against a "glass ceiling". Mr Abrahams,
   like Lord Levy during the dénouement of "cash-for-honours", is seen by
   some as a sort of Trollopean "Court Jew", thrown to the wolves when
   circumstances demanded. But the key fact is that there are, and have
   long been, Jews in the establishment's upper reaches ("more old
   Estonians than old Etonians", Macmillan jibed of Margaret Thatcher's
   cabinet).

   The real cause of the syndrome is subtler than that. It is a vague but
   powerful sense, which many immigrant antennae pick up, that there is
   somewhere an inner sanctum of Britishness, an elusive top table, to
   which, by reason of birth and class, the newcomer is not invited,
   ostensibly welcomed though he may be. Finding a way to it, through
   lavish acts of patriotism or patronage, becomes for some a mission
   more compelling than money. Three or four generations in, most Jews
   have outgrown those neuroses; but some haven't, and other, newer
   ethnic groups, such as some Anglo-Indians, have acquired them.

   The funding row rumbles on, as politicians confess fresh accounting
   indiscretions. More may emerge about Mr Abrahams's role. So far the
   main lessons are that the rules on donations need to be overhauled, as
   Gordon Brown now promises--and that, whatever they are, they should be
   obeyed. If the backgrounds of some of those involved suggest a further
   conclusion, it does not concern either anti-Semitism or nefarious
   lobbying. It has to do with the mixed feelings of marginality and
   ambition immigrants to Britain experience. Those feelings are visible
   in another, more revealing photo that has surfaced of a young Mr
   Abrahams: dressed to the nines, with his parents and his granny, for a
   garden party at Buckingham Palace.


   Unpaid subsidies provoke calls for blood

   ONE of Labour's successes in office has been its management of
   Britain's economy. But when it comes to more prosaic administrative
   matters, its record is muckier. A string of procurement disasters,
   diligently catalogued by spending watchdogs and parliamentary
   committees, give the impression of chronic incompetence in project
   management. More evidence came on March 29th, when a committee of MPs
   issued a scathing report on the Rural Payments Agency (RPA), which is
   meant to distribute £1.5 billion of European Common Agricultural
   Policy (CAP) subsidies to British farmers.

   The mess was some time in the making. In 2003 the European Commission
   reformed the CAP, replacing production subsidies with a single payment
   based on farm size, leaving the RPA in need of a new payment system.
   Officials at the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs
   (DEFRA), decided to merge the new system with an existing programme of
   cost-cutting, begun in 2001 and carried out with the help of
   Accenture, a consultancy.

   Chaos followed. The government missed its own payment deadline of
   December 2005, as well as a later commitment to pay 96% of the
   outstanding claims by March 2006. As recently as last December, around
   500 farmers were still waiting for their money. Suddenly and
   unexpectedly deprived of a large chunk of their income, many struggled
   to cope. "This saga has cost farmers £20m of their own money, and
   untold stress," says Peter Kendall, head of the National Farmers'
   Union.

   The catalogue of failures will be familiar to anyone who has followed
   the dolorous saga of British government procurement. Contracts were
   changed after being signed, communication between DEFRA, the RPA and
   Accenture was poor, systems were overly complicated and oversight was
   lax. More unusual is the fact that the MPs are so very cross. "If
   accountability is to mean anything at all," they say rather pompously,
   "then all those responsible for the RPA failure should consider their
   positions." One scalp has already been claimed: Johnston McNeill, the
   RPA's boss, was forced out in March 2006. Others, however, have so far
   escaped punishment. Margaret Beckett, in charge of DEFRA at the time,
   is now the foreign secretary; Sir Brian Bender, DEFRA's most senior
   civil servant, has moved over to the Department for Trade and
   Industry.

   This fuss may seem overdone given the fact that farming now makes up
   only around 1% of Britain's economy. But the rest of the country may
   come to rue DEFRA's incompetence. The EU seems likely to fine Britain
   for its late payments, and the Treasury has set aside £300m to cover
   it.

