
                                                                      EPA

                                    EPA

   The real test for Ukraine's warring parties will come after this
   weekend's election


   THE stage on Independence Square is set, the props are out, the
   players are ready for the general election on September 30th. There
   are blue tents for the Party of the Regions, led by the prime
   minister, Viktor Yanukovich; orange ones for Our Ukraine, the party of
   his rival, President Viktor Yushchenko; and white tents with red
   hearts for the fiery Yulia Tymoshenko, Mr Yushchenko's first prime
   minister.

   Ukrainians have seen this show several times. This is the second
   parliamentary election since the orange revolution of 2004. The past
   three years have seen lots of side-swapping, corruption and betrayal.
   Much of the president's power has been transferred to parliament. In
   April Mr Yushchenko called a fresh parliamentary election, leaving the
   country largely ungoverned for almost six months.

   The hope is that Ukraine's political system will now be rebooted. Yet
   the results may be similar to the 2006 parliamentary election, when
   the big winner was the Party of the Regions, followed by the
   Tymoshenko block and trailed by Our Ukraine. The real question is not
   over seats: it is whether the political elite can create a functioning
   governing body. And that is also to ask if Ukraine, with no tradition
   of statehood, can be a successful country.

   From this perspective, the importance of this election goes far beyond
   Ukraine. If the biggest ex-Soviet country after Russia can pull itself
   out of this crisis, it will be an example for others, including
   Moldova and Belarus.

   In the 2004 presidential election the picture seemed clear. The orange
   forces, led by Ms Tymoshenko and Mr Yushchenko, defeated the
   vote-rigging Mr Yanukovich, who was backed by Moscow. Ukraine was
   turned to the West. Since then the picture has become blurred.
   Ideological divides, at least between the two Viktors, seem less
   important and the fight for power and money more so.

   As president, Mr Yushchenko failed to break the nexus between politics
   and business and turned a blind eye to the murky brokering of Russian
   gas to Ukraine. The orange revolution did not create the institutions
   needed for a functioning state. Then Mr Yanukovich, the villain in
   2004, staged a dramatic comeback. Unlike Mr Yushchenko, he never
   promised to cut links with business tycoons. He is backed by Rinat
   Akhmetov, an MP and the country's richest man. "We have a different
   philosophy: we want to draw business into the running of the country.
   Akhmetov and Yanukovich complement each other," says Yuriy
   Miroshnychenko, a lawyer with the Party of the Regions.

   Mr Yanukovich has also undergone a makeover by American consultants
   and no longer takes instructions from Moscow. His main message is of
   stability and growth. Demanding official status for the Russian
   language and opposition to NATO membership are secondary. Ms
   Tymoshenko calls for a revolutionary breakthrough and an
   anti-corruption crusade. That inspires awe in her supporters and
   apprehension among some tycoons. All three parties want Ukraine to get
   into the European Union, but the EU offers little encouragement.

   None of the parties will get an overall majority, so a coalition will
   be necessary. One possibility is the reunion of Ms Tymoshenko and Mr
   Yushchenko. Another is a coalition between the Party of the Regions
   and Our Ukraine. Mr Yanukovich and Mr Akhmetov have talked to Mr
   Yushchenko, who has not ruled out a coalition with his opponents. Now
   negotiations are intensifying.

   The test of this election will be the ability of the parties to do a
   post-election deal. Oles Doniy, a supporter of Our Ukraine who fought
   for independence in the early 1990s, says that "from the point of view
   of the Ukrainian state, victory by Our Ukraine is not enough. The most
   important thing is the functioning of the state." For the election to
   be judged a success, he argues, the parties must not cheat; whoever
   loses must recognise the victory of the others; and whoever wins must
   allow the losers to function as a proper opposition.

   Each of the three parties has accused its opponents of rigging the
   votes, even before they are cast. None of the parties is ready to
   admit defeat. If the Party of the Regions wins the most seats but is
   excluded from government, Mr Yanukovich may bring people on to the
   streets; or simply boycott parliament.

   If the economy keeps growing fast, Ukrainians can afford to take
   little interest. But with the world economy faltering, the next few
   years could be tougher. A stalemate that blocks further reform could
   then lose all the gains from 2004.


   Let them burn snake oil 



   IN EUROPE, policy packages are like patent remedies: if they promise
   to cure one or two ills, they might be worth a try; if a dozen,
   suspect quackery. On January 23rd the European Commission is to unveil
   a comprehensive energy policy that promises to curb climate change,
   increase energy security, shield economies from volatile fuel prices
   and foster new industries in which Europe will lead the world. The
   mandate for this monster comes from national leaders, who set
   themselves a string of ambitious but sketchy energy goals at a summit
   last March, the European Union's first after growing to 27 members.
   Beforehand, some people wondered how such a diverse group would agree
   about something as tricky as an energy policy. In the event, agreement
   came fast. The reason for that is now clear: like the finest
   snake-oil, the new policy promises something for everyone.

   For countries worried about global warming, there is a target to
   reduce EU greenhouse-gas emissions by at least a fifth of their 1990
   level before 2020. For countries less fussed about climate change
   (some ex-communist newcomers), the policy stresses independence from
   scary suppliers such as Russia, and asks the rich countries of old
   Europe to accept the lion's share of greenhouse-gas curbs.

   Countries with lots of coal will doubtless be gratified by talk of
   clean coal plants, and of carbon capture and storage. Farmers get a
   potentially lucrative pledge that the EU will use biofuels for a tenth
   of its transport needs, as long as they are eco-friendly (fierce rows
   continue about how to judge that). For Europeans opposed to nuclear
   energy (the biggest source of low-carbon energy in the EU), the
   portmanteau places a huge bet on technologies such as wind and wave
   power, setting a target to triple Europe's overall use of renewable
   energies by 2020.

   Countries determined to subsidise expensive forms of greenery (cloudy
   Germany loves solar panels, for some reason) will be allowed to carry
   on. This is sold as a punt on EU innovation, keeping a mix of
   technologies alive while waiting to see which will sell. The model is
   Denmark, which subsidised wind turbines for years and now makes a mint
   exporting them--never mind that wind power itself has to be
   subsidised.

   For fans of market mechanisms, an existing European scheme for trading
   carbon-emissions quotas will be tightened up and a separate trading
   scheme created to set up a market in renewable power certificates
   among EU members. That would allow Britain--a crowded and expensive
   island with strong planning laws--to pay for new wind farms in
   Romania, say. With traded certificates, the power generated by
   Transylvanian windmills would be credited to Britain's renewables
   account, while Romania would get cash and clean electricity.
   Free-traders, in principle, ought to be pleased. Renewables such as
   windmills promote trade and market integration by prodding governments
   to link up national grids, says Peter Brun of the Danish wind-energy
   firm, Vestas. Otherwise, on blustery days you risk swamping your own
   grid, and on calm days going short.

   European officials predict that their policy will redistribute wealth
   to poor neighbours. These may include non-Europeans, as long as
   renewable energy produced by them is imported back to Europe. Thus
   Italy could build solar arrays in north Africa, as long as it laid
   undersea cables to bring back the electricity.

   Europe has "so much to gain", enthuses a Eurocrat: energy security,
   jobs, technological gains, you name it. There will be new industries
   "to replace older industries that will increasingly have trouble
   surviving in a carbon-constrained environment".

   But that is where the clashes start. The French president, Nicolas
   Sarkozy, complains that if EU policies drive heavy polluters to
   countries with laxer carbon regimes, that would be "neither efficient,
   nor fair, nor economically sustainable". To France, it is
   "indispensable" to fight back with import tariffs on goods from
   countries that resist binding curbs on greenhouse emissions (trade
   war, anyone?).

   One minister says it is "stupid" to pin such high hopes on renewable
   energies, because boosting them is not the same thing as cutting
   carbon emissions. If Europeans want to have global impact, he says,
   they should invest heavily in clean coal technology. "There is no way
   you can sort out China with wind power."

   Energy = much confusion, squared

   By far the loudest grumbling, though, is being prompted by specific
   targets that tell each government how big a slice of their energy mix
   must be renewable by 2020. Countries with feeble records on renewable
   energy (such as Britain) will be required to make astonishing leaps:
   in Britain, renewables are supposed to rise sevenfold, from less than
   2% of the energy mix to around 14%. Class swots on renewable energy
   are just as cross, because past efforts have been ignored in setting
   new targets. Sweden, which currently gets about 40% of its energy from
   hydro power and so on, will be asked to find more than half its energy
   from renewables, pushing it into unknown territory at unknown cost.

   For Connie Hedegaard, the Danish climate and energy minister, the
   commission's refusal to acknowledge past efforts is bad politics.
   Europe "should show that sometimes being a front-runner is
   worthwhile". Looking ahead, countries that miss targets should also
   visibly "pay in some way or other". After all, one of Europe's main
   problems, she argues, is that pledges are not kept, and policies are
   never implemented properly.

   That, of course, is the problem with issuing so many pledges. The
   energy package pursues objectives that range, depending on your point
   of view, from the laudable and visionary to the quixotic and crazily
   expensive. The sheer length of the wish-list helped secure a deal last
   spring. But the multiple goals are a muddle. If Europe wants to show
   the world it is serious about climate change, its leaders need to
   agree which objectives really matter. If not, their energy policy may
   be beyond any remedy.


   The euro area is not immune to the ills that afflict America and
   Britain




   EARLY in the new year of 2001, Lucas Papademos attended his first
   meeting of the European Central Bank's (ECB) rate-setting council. Mr
   Papademos was there to represent Greece, which had just joined the
   single currency. A day before the meeting, the Federal Reserve had
   lowered its key interest rate by half a percentage point, the first of
   a string of cuts aimed at staving off recession. The ECB declined to
   follow the Fed's lead, deciding to keep its benchmark rate unchanged.

   Seven years on, the ECB enters the new year in an eerily similar
   position. On January 10th its policy meeting will welcome central-bank
   governors from two new members, Cyprus and Malta, which both adopted
   the euro on New Year's Day. Now, as then, inflation of close to 3% is
   the bank's main worry, since it remains fairly upbeat about GDP
   growth. The ECB's economists expect the euro area to grow by 1.5-2.5%
   this year--broadly in line with its potential, in other words, albeit
   with downside risks. Similarly, the bank expected "continuing robust,
   albeit slightly lower growth rates" at the start of 2001, despite
   worries about America's economy.

   The first policy summit of 2008 is very likely to end with a decision
   to keep rates on hold, just as the January 2001 meeting did. Indeed
   the ECB is more minded to lift rates than cut them, judging from
   comments made by Jean-Claude Trichet, its president, following the
   bank's last meeting on December 6th. But if events keep playing out
   just as they did seven years ago, the ECB will be forced into lowering
   rates later this year.

   Much depends on the economy's response to malfunctioning credit
   markets and the gathering economic gloom in America. An optimist would
   argue that the euro zone will prove resilient, because it does not
   have America's legacy of struggling subprime borrowers, its
   current-account deficit or its housing bubble.

   A closer look prompts a less sanguine assessment. Europe has its own
   property hotspots. House-price gains in Spain and Ireland have been
   far greater than in America over the past decade. Both markets are now
   cooling. Even if Ireland's economy is too small to be a big part of
   the ECB's reckoning, Spain does have enough clout to alter the course
   of the euro area. Thomas Meyer at Deutsche Bank reckons that in the
   past five years, Spain accounted for more than one-third of the growth
   in consumer spending, more than half of the increase in investment and
   nearly two-thirds of the job gains of the euro area's big four
   economies.

   The good times may be ending. Spain's boom has been built on a ready
   supply of loans. But the credit squeeze means borrowed funds are now
   harder to come by, which leaves its economy vulnerable. Cooling
   housing markets in France and in Italy are likely to hurt those
   economies too.

   The euro zone also has financial imbalances to contend with. True, its
   current account has been broadly balanced, in contrast with America's
   large and persistent deficits. But that is mostly because Germany's
   current-account surplus, equivalent to 6% of GDP last year according
   to the OECD, has acted as a huge counterweight to deficits elsewhere.

   The high level of saving by German firms contributes to this handsome
   surplus and masks a worrying fault line running through the euro area.
   Outside Germany, companies are heavily dependent on borrowing to
   finance their capital spending, which makes the outlook for investment
   very sensitive to conditions in credit markets. David Owen at Dresdner
   Kleinwort reckons that if Germany is excluded, the corporate sector's
   financing gap (the difference between income and spending) was almost
   6% of GDP last year. That is a bigger funding shortfall than in 2000,
   on the eve of a savage retrenchment by firms that hurt jobs as well as
   investment (see chart).

   Companies' reliance on borrowing is all the more worrying since banks
   play a far bigger role as suppliers of capital in Europe than in
   America. The banks' troubles have not yet crippled the supply of loans
   to companies. Indeed, as Mr Trichet pointed out last month, such
   borrowing rose by 13.9% in the year to October, a rate that "does not
   suggest that we are experiencing a credit crunch". That could be
   premature. Mr Owen thinks the surge in borrowing may reflect firms
   taking up pre-arranged credit lines while they can.

   The euro area may shrug off these ills, particularly if Germany powers
   ahead and consumer spending picks up. Germany's export machine has
   been fuelled by vigorous demand in emerging economies. Moreover, its
   companies can readily finance capital spending from profits. Even so,
   Mr Meyer at Deutsche Bank reckons that the export performance of the
   past two years is "unrepeatable". A strong euro and sluggish growth
   (or worse) in Britain and America, the euro area's two biggest
   markets, mean exports are a less reliable source of demand.

   The lesson of 2001 is that when the outlook for the economy appears
   bad enough, the ECB will cut interest rates, even if inflation is
   stubbornly high. Already, two other inflation-targeting central
   banks--in Britain and Canada--have followed the Fed's lead. If the
   banking crisis persists, the ECB may have to do likewise.


   The Polish government flails, creaks and sheds ministers


   POLAND'S fractious, pig-headed government has survived for nearly 18
   months, against the expectations of most commentators. Lech and
   Jaroslaw Kaczynski, the identical twins who are respectively president
   and prime minister, may be disastrous in foreign affairs, but at home
   life rumbles on fine. Poland took in a record $14.7 billion in foreign
   investment last year, and the economy is growing at almost 6% a year.

   Money is flowing in from Brussels, thanks to Grazyna Gesicka, the
   diligent regional-affairs minister. The justice system, under a zealot
   named Zbigniew Ziobro, at least sounds serious about catching the
   biggest crooks. Communist-era secret-police files--long a source of
   suspicion and scandal in Poland--are to be opened. The old military
   intelligence service, the WSI, has been closed down, and a dossier
   will be published soon showing the reach of its sinister tentacles in
   business, media and officialdom. The upper reaches of the Kaczynskis'
   Law and Justice party exude a puritanical rectitude. Its two small
   coalition partners, once known for their outlandish populism, have
   been tamed by power.

   In the past two weeks, however, the government has shown signs of
   self-destruction. First to go was Radek Sikorski, the defence
   minister. He resigned because his military counter-intelligence
   service was snooping on him, at the behest of its chief, Antoni
   Macierewicz, a Kaczynski ally. Mr Macierewicz was in charge of
   liquidating the WSI, but has created a private spy service for the
   Kaczynskis in its place. The loss of Mr Sikorski, the only minister
   able to talk sense in English, will merely highlight his
   ex-colleagues' failings.

   Next came the departure of Ludwik Dorn, a deputy prime minister and
   head of the interior ministry. Known as the "third twin" for his
   closeness to the Kaczynskis, the brainy and hard-working Mr Dorn wrote
   a furious open letter to the prime minister, demanding indefinite
   leave (which was granted). The ostensible reason was a clash with Mr
   Ziobro.

   Two senior foreign-policy advisers have also left. The chaos suggests
   that the Kaczynskis' grip may be failing. Anybody wanting to survive
   in the government must be passive, mediocre and loyal, say Poles. One
   Polish weekly has even compared Jaroslaw Kaczynski to Vladimir Putin,
   an insult that is both shocking and a shade absurd. Yet Mr Kaczynski's
   statist, top-down approach and his disregard for the separation of
   powers do ring some faintly alarming bells.

   Even as their enemies become more hysterical, however, the Kaczynskis'
   supporters are untroubled. Law and Justice is polling a steady 28%,
   more than it scored in the election of September 2005. It would be
   rash to write the government off; Jaroslaw Kaczynski has often proved
   a masterly tactician. Some loyalists even suspect that Mr Dorn's
   half-resignation is part of a master-plan. Others think the
   government's troubles are a last-ditch diversion put up by the WSI in
   its death-throes.

   The bigger problem is that, aside from the justice ministry, reform
   has stalled in Poland. Its public administration remains unwieldy,
   incompetent and backward. Having booted the old government's cronies
   out of top jobs in public institutions and state-owned companies, the
   Kaczynskis have installed their own chums, rather than liberalising
   and depoliticising. Privatisation has almost stopped. Public
   purchasing is still deeply corrupt. The Kaczynskis' obsession with the
   wrongs of the past seems to blind them to what is happening under
   their noses.

   In foreign policy, farce is mixed with tragedy. The Kaczynskis have
   missed no opportunity to insult Germany--which under Angela Merkel has
   been trying to be friends. Their conduct of diplomacy is comically
   incompetent. Any advisers who know anything about abroad attract
   mistrust, and often dismissal. Hardly any officials are left who
   understand the European Union, for example, a grave matter with tricky
   negotiations over the EU constitution about to start again.

   Economics attracts similar disdain. The sole goal of economic policy
   was to remove Leszek Balcerowicz, author of Polish free-market reforms
   in the 1990s, from the central bank. Poland's most urgent task is to
   use the boom to cut the budget deficit. Taxes on labour are too high,
   squeezing wages and increasing the incentive to emigrate. A
   million-plus Poles have done just that since Poland joined the EU,
   creating widespread labour shortages.

   Vengeful, paranoid, addicted to crises, divided and mostly
   incompetent, the government survives mainly because the economy is
   strong and the opposition is feeble. Neither will last for ever.


   A good graphic can tell a story, bring a lump to the throat, even
   change policies. Here are three of history's best

   IT WAS at a dinner party in 1856 that Florence Nightingale met William
   Farr. The Lady of the Lamp was already famous for nursing British
   soldiers wounded in the Crimea; Farr, the Compiler of Abstracts in the
   General Registry Office, was widely recognised as an innovative
   statistician. Both cared deeply about improving the world through
   sanitation; both understood the importance of meticulous records in
   providing the evidence needed to bring about change.

                                                             Graphic News

                                Graphic News

   Farr was the first to compile "mortality tables", listing causes of
   death in the general population; Nightingale compared his numbers with
   her own on the deaths of soldiers to great effect. By showing that
   even in peacetime a soldier faced twice the risk of dying in a given
   year as a civilian, she campaigned successfully for better conditions
   in barracks. The pair were instrumental in setting up a royal
   commission of inquiry into sanitary conditions during the Crimean war.

   Although remembered as the mother of modern nursing, Nightingale was
   an accomplished statistician too. She was particularly innovative in
   presenting data visually. The example above, of a type now known as
   "Nightingale's Rose" or "Nightingale's Coxcomb", comes from her
   monograph, "Notes on matters affecting the health, efficiency and
   hospital administration of the British army" published in 1858. In the
   same year she became the first female fellow of the Statistical
   Society of London (now Royal Statistical Society).

   The chart displays the causes of the deaths of soldiers during the
   Crimean war, divided into three categories: "Preventible or Mitigable
   Zymotic Diseases" (infectious diseases, including cholera and
   dysentery, coloured in blue), "wounds" (red) and "all other causes"
   (black). As with today's pie charts, the area of each wedge is
   proportional to the figure it stands for, but it is the radius of each
   slice (the distance from the common centre to the outer edge) rather
   than the angle that is altered to achieve this. Her principal
   message--that even during periods of heavy fighting, such as November
   1854, far more soldiers died from infection than from wounds--can be
   seen at a glance. She sent the chart to the War Office; and it is a
   fair assumption that it contributed to the improvements in military
   hospitals that she brought about.

   Nightingale's chart is a beautiful and persuasive call to action, but
   it is not perfect. The red, black and blue wedges are all measured
   from the centre, so some areas mask parts of others. The numbers of
   deaths from the various causes are not stated--although, to be fair,
   it was their relative size that Nightingale wished to show.

                                                             Graphic News

                                Graphic News

   The chart to the left also tells the story of a war: Napoleon's
   Russian campaign of 1812. It was drawn half a century afterwards by
   Charles Joseph Minard, a French civil engineer who worked on dams,
   canals and bridges. He was 80 years old and long retired when, in
   1861, he called on the innovative techniques he had invented for the
   purpose of displaying flows of people, in order to tell the tragic
   tale in a single image. Edward Tufte, whose book, "The Visual Display
   of Quantitative Information" is a bible to statisticians, calls it
   "the best statistical graphic ever drawn".

   Minard's chart shows six types of information: geography, time,
   temperature, the course and direction of the army's movement, and the
   number of troops remaining. The widths of the gold (outward) and black
   (returning) paths represent the size of the force, one millimetre to
   10,000 men. Geographical features and major battles are marked and
   named, and plummeting temperatures on the return journey are shown
   along the bottom.

   The chart tells the dreadful story with painful clarity: in 1812, the
   Grand Army set out from Poland with a force of 422,000; only 100,000
   reached Moscow; and only 10,000 returned. The detail and
   understatement with which such horrifying loss is represented combine
   to bring a lump to the throat. As men tried, and mostly failed, to
   cross the Bérézina river under heavy attack, the width of the black
   line halves: another 20,000 or so gone. The French now use the
   expression "C'est la Bérézina" to describe a total disaster.

   In 1871, the year after Minard died, his obituarist cited particularly
   his graphical innovations: "For the dry and complicated columns of
   statistical data, of which the analysis and the discussion always
   require a great sustained mental effort, he had substituted images
   mathematically proportioned, that the first glance takes in and knows
   without fatigue, and which manifest immediately the natural
   consequences or the comparisons unforeseen." The chart shown here is
   singled out for special mention: it "inspires bitter reflections on
   the cost to humanity of the madnesses of conquerors and the merciless
   thirst of military glory".

                                                             Graphic News

                                Graphic News

   The chart to the left is the earliest of our three. It was published
   in 1821 by William Playfair, a Scottish engineer, political economist
   and scoundrel: he was convicted of libel in England and swindling in
   France. Alongside these many and varied skills he was also an engraver
   (he produced some of James Watt's engineering drawings), which
   explains this image's handsomeness, with its delicate shading and
   ornate attribution.

   Playfair liked controversial topics. He drew a chart comparing tax
   levels in various countries in order to show that Britain's was too
   high. He was the first to show imports and exports on one chart,
   shading the area between the two to indicate the balance of trade and
   explaining that the intersection of the lines showed a shift in favour
   of one country or the other.

   This chart, his most famous, shows the "weekly wages of a good
   mechanic" and the "price of a quarter of wheat", with the reigns of
   monarchs displayed along the top. It is a little difficult to see the
   point Playfair wished to make: "that never at any former period was
   wheat so cheap, in proportion to mechanical labour as it is at the
   present time". Presumably he was not familiar with the idea of
   combining two variables--prices and wages--to make a
   third--affordability. Still, he should not be overly criticised for
   this. For a start, his conclusion was correct. Statisticians have used
   his data to plot wages divided by prices (showing how much wheat a
   week's wages would buy) against time, and the point becomes clear--as,
   incidentally, does a more subtle one: the increase in buying power was
   slowing down.

   And Playfair was already making a leap of abstraction that few of his
   contemporaries could follow. Using the horizontal and vertical axes to
   represent time and money was such a novelty that he had to explain it
   painstakingly in accompanying text. "This method has struck several
   persons as being fallacious", he wrote, "because geometrical
   measurement has not any relation to money or to time; yet here it is
   made to represent both."

   He was the first in a series of economists, statisticians and social
   reformers who wanted to use data not only to inform but also to
   persuade and even campaign--and who understood that when the eye
   comprehends, the heart often follows. Nightingale hoped her charts
   would liven up her publications; the queen, she thought, might look at
   the pictures, even if she did not read the words.

   Not everyone thought it was right to include such fripperies in a
   sober publication. "We do not want impressions, we want facts," Farr
   wrote to her in 1861. "You complain that your report would be dry. The
   dryer the better. Statistics should be the dryest of all reading."
   Fortunately, she ignored him.


   A small European Union country fears it may be swamped by migrants

   NO EVENT has been awaited in Malta with greater eagerness than the
   start of Operation Nautilus II. After a pilot scheme last year, the
   hope was that patrol boats, helicopters and aircraft from all over the
   European Union would converge on the seas between Malta and Libya, to
   keep at bay the tide of migrants surging into the EU's smallest and
   most crowded member.

   Most of the migrants come from the Horn of Africa. They leave Libya on
   overloaded, unseaworthy vessels. A lot die before reaching safety (at
   least 12 bodies were recovered this week). The perils they face, and
   the attitudes of some Maltese, were laid bare last month, when 27
   migrants were found clinging to tuna pens attached to a Maltese-owned
   vessel in international waters. They had been there for three days.
   The owner refused to let them on to his boat, claiming they might
   seize it.

   Yet if there is a solution to this problem, Nautilus II is not likely
   to supply it. Italy is withholding its co-operation. The Italian
   interior minister, Giuliano Amato, argues that the entire exercise is
   pointless unless it involves Libya, which has not even replied to the
   EU's invitation. Frontex, the EU agency in charge of the scheme,
   cannot say if any other country will take part.

   Without Libya's help, Frontex's patrols will be unable to send
   migrants back. Instead, the agency's spokesman says, they will be
   "informed that what they are doing [is] illegal and given
   life-jackets". If their vessel is in distress, they will be rescued
   and taken to the nearest safe place--perhaps Lampedusa or Pantelleria,
   two Italian islands, but often Malta itself. Far from deterring
   migration to the island, Nautilus II could end up making it faster and
   safer.

   Anti-immigrant feeling is running high in Malta. On June 9th a new
   far-right party, Azzjoni Nazzjonali, appeared. The solution of its
   leader, Josie Muscat, is to ship new arrivals "to the edge of our
   territorial waters and say `We're sorry, but this is where our
   responsibility stops'". His views are extreme, but both mainstream
   parties agree that Malta is at bursting-point. "The numbers who came
   to Malta last year are equivalent to half our birth rate," says the
   prime minister, Lawrence Gonzi. "There is no way Malta can absorb
   them." His answer is to get other EU countries to help with the
   repatriation of migrants who are refused refugee or similar status;
   and to share out what he calls the "excess numbers" of those who do.

   What few in Malta acknowledge is that its immigrants are a consequence
   of EU entry three years ago. With few exceptions, those who land in
   Malta want to get to Italy or farther north. Until they joined the EU
   in 2004, the Maltese did little to stop them pursuing their journey
   (often with travel documents valid only in Maltese airspace, issued by
   a Roman Catholic church group). But EU entry stopped that by imposing
   the so-called "Dublin system", which puts responsibility for
   asylum-seekers on the country where they first arrive.

   Malta may be densely populated (three times more than the
   Netherlands), but its immigrant population is still tiny. Officials
   say they have no precise total, but their estimate is below
   3,000--fewer than the commonly touted figure of 7,000 arrivals since
   2002, and less than 1% of the island's 400,000 population. Malta's EU
   partners could be forgiven for feeling that, as in other respects, the
   union's southernmost member is just catching up with them.


                                                            Peter Schrank

                               Peter Schrank

   Its newest members offer the European Union some history lessons

   JAVIER SOLANA, the European Union's top foreign-policy honcho,
   recently offered a neat turn of phrase to explain the importance that
   Europeans attach to the past. Ponder the phrase "that's history", and
   what it implies on either side of the Atlantic, he suggested. When
   Americans say something is "history", they mean it is no longer
   relevant. When Europeans say the same thing, "they usually mean the
   opposite".

   Is this mere wordplay? If only. History lies at the heart of many
   disputes that are causing such angst in today's EU. Thorny topics
   include Russia's bullying of small Baltic states, fierce rows in such
   countries as Poland and Romania over how far to probe communist-era
   collaboration, not to mention the stand-off between Greeks and Turks
   in Cyprus. Some of these historical quarrels are unfamiliar to western
   Europeans, and they are often highly inconvenient to boot. Small
   wonder that a few longer-established union members are handling the
   arrival of their newer colleagues rather badly.

   The EU used to know where it stood on history--it was best kept
   simple, and in the past. In the early decades, history was about one
   big thing: the second world war, and the grand project of
   Franco-German reconciliation. From the outset, the EU was partly meant
   to make war unthinkable inside Europe. But over the years that miracle
   of continental forgiveness has ossified into something more
   inflexible, even smug. Just as pioneering Eurocrats toiled to create
   single European markets in widgets or wheat, their political masters
   crafted something approaching an approved single European history
   (challenged only in awkward-squad Britain, where the war was a matter
   of national pride). This history portrayed a smooth moral progression
   from nationalism and conflict (bad) to the sunny uplands of
   compromise, dialogue and border-free brotherhood (good).

   Enlargement is now challenging all this--especially the recent
   expansion to 27 countries, including ten former communist ones. The
   clumsy reactions of old EU members are partly to do with ignorance.
   Enlargement has introduced lots of alien grievances, sending old
   Brussels hands scurrying to their encyclopedias to mug up on the 1920
   Treaty of Trianon (hated in Hungary) and Carinthian plebiscite (it
   makes Slovenes fume). But less forgivably, some of the insensitivity
   of older club members carries a whiff of moral superiority, a sense
   that it is un-European (not to mention uncouth) to bear historical
   grudges.

   European politicians have always been quick to use post-war
   reconciliation as a cudgel to pre-empt further debate. This can get
   pretty shameless. Josep Borrell, then president of the European
   Parliament, once dismissed campaigners against the parliament's
   nonsensical monthly trek from Brussels to Strasbourg, because they
   were Swedish: how could Swedes understand that Strasbourg, a much
   fought-over border city, symbolised Franco-German reconciliation, he
   asked. This "historic dimension" was lost on a country that "did not
   participate" in the second world war (though nor did Mr Borrell's--he
   is from Spain).

   Lofty talk of European brotherhood also conceals the fact that, even
   among the founder members of the club, there are deep differences
   about how to reconcile societies with their past. At one end is the
   German model of swift and repeated repentance. Other countries took
   much longer to break with post-war silence and myth-making (France
   springs to mind). Still others moved on from dictatorship to democracy
   via pacts of national amnesia that are only now being challenged
   (think of Spain). It is striking that French politicians have been
   vocal critics of the Polish government over its recent (admittedly
   cack-handed) project to cleanse public life of former collaborators
   (see [3]article). German politicians, with their tradition of
   purgative truth-telling, have been more muted.

   In victory, defeat

   Above all, the authorised version of European history has floundered
   in the face of new members for whom the second world war is not the
   end of any debate, but a starting-point for new rows. The EU now has a
   fistful of ex-communist countries for whom, as one Brussels official
   puts it, "Strasbourg is not a symbol, and 1945 is not a magic year".
   When Polish politicians mention Auschwitz, it is often to complain
   about it being called a "Polish death camp", rather than the wording
   they feel is correct: a Nazi death camp located in Poland. The latest
   row between Estonia and Russia concerns the relocation of a Soviet war
   monument from the centre of Tallinn. Earlier this year, the Baltics
   led an unsuccessful push to add Stalin's crimes to an EU directive
   covering Holocaust denial.

   This is not to say that the newcomers inevitably have right on their
   side. Some nasty anti-Semites lurk within Polish politics. The Baltics
   mis-timed their push for recognition of Stalin's crimes: a directive
   about racism and xenophobia was the wrong vehicle. But that is no
   excuse for the impatient eye-rolling with which newcomers are often
   greeted when they air historical grievances. (During a discussion of
   Estonia's war-memorial row, the German ambassador to the EU observed
   cheerfully that Berlin was still home to Soviet war monuments, and
   even sculptures of Lenin, as if that was comparable.)

   It matters that the EU has a tin ear for some of its members'
   historical memories. It is, at the least, bad manners--not to mention
   bad tactics when dealing with Russian assertiveness. In future,
   history may matter still more, assuming that the union follows
   strategic logic and enlarges once more to take in new members from the
   Balkans (and perhaps Turkey, even if that is a lot further off). These
   are rough neighbourhoods, where history can still get people killed.
   If the EU does not learn to listen to and understand different views
   of the past, it may find itself stumbling when confronting future
   conflicts inside and outside the union. And that would be an historic
   mistake.


   What the Lisbon and Brussels summits say about today's Europe



   IN THESE carbon-conscious times, there was much carping because
   European Union leaders held a party in Portugal to sign their new
   treaty, only to fly 1,700km (1,060 miles) to Brussels for a formal
   summit the next day. This jet-setting was indeed wasteful, and not
   only in the obvious way. The Lisbon bash on December 13th was both
   interesting and revealing; it was the summit in Brussels that was dull
   and largely devoid of substance.

   Lisbon's revelations included the fact that EU leaders are unsure how
   to treat their union's almost-anthem, the "Ode to Joy". This bit of
   Beethoven's ninth symphony was given formal status in the defunct EU
   constitution only to be ditched, along with the flag and the motto,
   when the text was reworked into a "reform treaty". In Lisbon it took a
   moment for people to recognise the Beethoven being thumped out on a
   piano. But as a choir began singing the "Ode to Joy", most jumped to
   their feet (the Austrian chancellor, Alfred Gusenbauer, showily
   singing along).

   It took an instant longer for some, including Britain's foreign
   secretary, David Miliband, to stand. History can only guess what his
   boss, Gordon Brown, would have done had he made it to the ceremony.
   Alas, Britain's prime minister arrived in Lisbon hours late, after a
   wholly unconvincing diary clash. As a man unimpressed by
   Euro-flummery, he signed the treaty alone at a vast desk, as if acting
   out "splendid isolation" in a diplomatic game of charades. It is
   revealing that his doing so caused a fuss. Within the EU, Mr Brown's
   semi-absence from the stage is now presented as a problem, unbalancing
   the triangle of the union's heavyweights, France, Germany and Britain.

   In Brussels, there is much talk of the awful personal chemistry
   between Germany's chancellor, Angela Merkel, and France's president,
   Nicolas Sarkozy, even if the machinery of Franco-German co-operation
   remains. It would be hard to find two more different personalities,
   suggests one senior figure. Ms Merkel is a calm scientist, attentive
   to detail. Mr Sarkozy is "excitable", and a "pure political animal".
   One European minister says simply: "A lot of European politics at the
   moment is about Sarkozy management. You have all this policy coming
   out in spasms, the idea is to limit the collateral damage."

   European leaders agreed to two things in Brussels. The first was to
   send 1,800 policemen, judges and officials to Kosovo. This matters,
   but not as much as it sounds. The mission was agreed only in principle
   and its legal basis remains unclear. The second was to create a
   "reflection group", which has until June 2010 to think about the
   challenges facing the EU between 2020 and 2030. In case that pace
   seems too breakneck, the group (chaired by a former Spanish prime
   minister, Felipe González, with help from a former Latvian president,
   Vaira Vike-Freiberga, and from Jorma Ollila, a Finnish businessman who
   chairs both Nokia and Royal Dutch Shell) has until the second half of
   next year merely to choose its nine members. That was about it, even
   though the summit conclusions ramble on for many pages--talking of the
   "crucial role" of tourism, asking for a "strategy for the Baltic Sea
   region". The summit lasted less than a day, stunning veterans used to
   coffee-fuelled marathons lasting 36 hours or more.

   Boosters talk up the Lisbon treaty as relaunching the EU after its
   constitutional crisis. Judging by the summit's mood it is more like a
   coalition government that has only just survived a vote of no
   confidence in parliament: everyone is weary and wary of fresh
   divisions, at least until the treaty is safely ratified. The next big
   Euro-row (about allocating targets for cuts in carbon emissions)
   cannot start until next year, when a proposal will be made by the
   European Commission. Subjects that might have triggered squabbles at
   this summit were mostly dealt with beforehand: a funding dispute about
   Galileo, a planned European satellite-navigation system to rival
   America's GPS; another spat about Turkey's membership negotiations.

   The limits to Europe

   Many December summits have featured rows about enlargement. There
   could have been an especially nasty one this time: Mr Sarkozy's
   hostility to Turkish accession is visceral. Indeed, it is the reason
   for the new reflection group. In August Mr Sarkozy made clear that
   France would block any more talks with Turkey unless a group of
   "sages" was invited to ponder the future. Such groups are not actually
   meant to reflect; they usually act as stalking horses for factions
   pushing big innovations, such as the single currency. So Mr Sarkozy's
   colleagues assumed that he wanted the reflection group to define
   Europe's future borders (and to discover that Turkey lies beyond
   them).

   Several governments, backed by the commission, accordingly fought to
   give the group a less alarming brief. Its mandate now makes no mention
   of borders, and it explicitly rules out discussion of the next EU
   budget or further changes to institutions. But efforts to defang the
   beast did not quite succeed: language about studying the stability of
   the EU and "the wider region" will surely allow the group to discuss
   enlargement.

   Fizzing with excitement, Mr Sarkozy insisted that the group would
   "certainly" ask whether the EU needed frontiers, to determine whether
   political union was part of a "new European dream". Yet in a next-door
   room Mr Brown offered a wholly different vision: the group would
   discuss "economic, environmental and security challenges" and
   globalisation. Indeed, Mr Brown's mood visibly lifted as he talked of
   the "exciting" prospect of more EU co-operation with such bodies as
   the IMF. And when he got to the Bank of International Settlements, he
   became positively cheerful.

   The conclusion is clear. EU leaders disagree profoundly about what
   Europe is: a political project, or just an exercise in international
   economic governance. A summit that debated these differences would be
   worth holding. But this summit was not. A more rational EU would have
   simply scrapped it.


   A settlement in Transdniestria is bad news for Moldova--and the West 

   ITS consequences may be disastrous, but a deal on the worst
   territorial dispute in Europe's poorest country was still too
   tempting. Moldova, sandwiched between Ukraine and Romania, has been
   split ever since a brief civil war in 1992. Its industrialised part--a
   strip of land to the east of the Dniester river--maintains an
   unrecognised independence, propped up by Russia's cheap gas and its
   contingent of "peacekeepers".

   Transdniestria, as it is called, is a black hole. It makes weapons,
   ranging from cheap submachineguns to high-tech missile parts. The
   customers are unknown. It also has lucratively porous borders: one
   common scam is to smuggle American chicken-meat in and out of
   Ukraine's protected home market, at a profit of some EUR700 ($950) per
   tonne.

   Previous attempts to broker a peace deal have got nowhere.
   Transdniestria's rulers have close ties with business-minded
   counterparts in Ukraine, Russia and even in Moldova proper. And Russia
   is unwilling to give up a sliver of its former empire. Last year it
   imposed a punishing embargo on Moldovan wine. But now Moldova is
   shifting its position. Last week President Vladimir Voronin set out a
   new approach that suits the Kremlin--but will dismay Moldova's friends
   in the West.

   In a declaration to be signed jointly with the Transdniestrian leader,
   Igor Smirnov, Moldova will for the first time recognise
   Transdniestria's government and leadership as legitimate entities.
   Voters on both sides will elect a new Moldovan parliament.
   Transdniestria will keep its Supreme Soviet and have top deputy
   ministers in the national government. By 2009 Russia's troops will be
   replaced by unarmed international monitors.

   American and European Union diplomats found out about all this only
   when Vladimir Socor, a Munich-based analyst, published a leaked
   version last week. Now officials in Washington, DC, and Brussels are
   urgently seeking clarification. They hope it is an idea, not a real
   plan, but they fear the worst. Even unencumbered by Transdniestria,
   Moldova's economy has been lacklustre. Of its 4.4m people, at least
   400,000 have emigrated; the country survives on their remittances. A
   dose of Transdniestrian politics is likely only to strengthen all the
   darkest forces in Moldovan public life.

   And what guarantee is there that the deal will stick? "Russia tends to
   take agreements as the basis not for implementation, but for further
   negotiation," says one cross official. The Kremlin has twice ignored
   previous deadlines for withdrawing troops. Suppose that, in a year's
   time, it finds pressing reasons for staying on?

   A third question concerns the Transdniestrian KGB. Closely linked to
   Moscow, it is run by Vladimir Antufeyev, who was involved in a failed
   Soviet crackdown in the Baltic states in 1990. Many think it is he,
   not Mr Smirnov, who runs the show. The Moldovan minister for
   Transdniestria, Vasile Sova, insists Mr Antufeyev and his pals must
   leave. Will they?

   But the biggest puzzle is the timing. Russia's president, Vladimir
   Putin, may have convinced Mr Voronin, a naïve ex-baker, that the
   moment was ripe for a deal. Russia may have wanted a quick fix to
   contrast with the wrangles at the United Nations over the future of
   Kosovo, Serbia's breakaway province. Yet if the Kremlin was in such a
   rush, why was it Moldova that had to make concessions?

   Crony capitalism could be triumphing over other differences. A top
   Moldovan politician's scrap-metal business sells mainly to a steel
   mill in Transdniestria. The son of another has a chain of fast-food
   restaurants that operates in the separatists' capital, Tiraspol. In
   theory, cash from the West should counteract any pull from the east:
   foreign donors have pledged more than $1.2 billion to Moldova in the
   next three years. But much of this depends on reforms that the
   country's lethargic and corrupt administration is loth to embrace.

   It will be hard for outsiders to block the deal; they may not even
   bother to try. If they did, they might be called wreckers, given that
   both sides want it. Yet Mr Voronin's plan means that Russia has, for
   once, trumped the West. Who might be next?


   Yulia Tymoshenko wins, but there are still doubts surrounding her
   coalition


   TWO hours after the polls closed in Ukraine's election on September
   30th the opposition leader, Yulia Tymoshenko, strode into a private
   suite in Kiev's smartest hotel, where European observers were waiting.
   At that moment Viktor Yanukovich, the incumbent prime minister,
   appeared on television looking shell-shocked. The exit polls were
   still coming in, but the first results were reflected on the
   politicians' faces. "We have the right to form the new government," Mr
   Yanukovich bleated. "Oh dear," said Ms Tymoshenko, before switching
   off the television, "he does look like an upset child."

   Days later Mr Yanukovich had bounced back. His Party of the Regions
   took the biggest share of the vote, as it had in March 2006. But the
   momentum is still running Ms Tymoshenko's way. She is the only
   politician whose popularity has risen sharply, boosting her party's
   share of the vote from 22% 18 months ago to almost 31%. With Our
   Ukraine, the party of President Viktor Yushchenko, taking 14%, there
   is a tiny majority for an "orange" coalition with Ms Tymoshenko as the
   most likely prime minister.

   Forming that government depends on Ms Tymoshenko and Mr Yushchenko
   sticking together. On October 3rd Mr Yushchenko called on all three
   parties to start talks over a coalition. But Ms Tymoshenko promptly
   said she could not work with Mr Yanukovich, as did some members of Our
   Ukraine.

   The voters' strong support for Ms Tymoshenko suggests that, for all
   their disillusionment in the past few years, they want reform just as
   much as they did when they poured into Kiev's Independence Square in
   the snows of late 2004. The orange revolution that pushed Mr
   Yushchenko into the presidency instead of Mr Yanukovich turned Ukraine
   from a corrupt post-Soviet autocracy into a fragile democracy. That Mr
   Yushchenko's support is now relatively weak reflects not a change of
   mood but his failure to live up to the orange revolution's promises.

   The latest election has restored the divide between the Party of the
   Regions and the orange coalition. This same line separates a
   post-Soviet thuggish political culture from a proto-European one. If
   Mr Yushchenko tries to blur the line by working with Mr Yanukovich, as
   he did in 2006, he is likely to land the country in a new political
   crisis.

   For all the faults that became evident when she was briefly prime
   minister in 2005, Ms Tymoshenko has remained consistent. Unlike Mr
   Yushchenko, she has always rejected the idea of forming a coalition
   with her opponents. Unlike Mr Yanukovich, she has not tried to change
   her image with the help of American spin-doctors. In the eyes of
   millions of Ukrainians, she is still the blonde heroine of the orange
   revolution and a victim of, not a participant in, the infighting among
   the president's men.

   She promises a break with the past that appeals to those who feel let
   down by successive governments. And she has broad support. Mr
   Yushchenko draws his vote largely from the west of Ukraine, and Mr
   Yanukovich from the Russian-speaking east and south. Ms Tymoshenko is
   less territorial: most of her voters live in central Ukraine, but in
   this election she has made inroads in both east and west. The risk of
   Ukraine splitting down the River Dnieper was always overdone. After
   this election it looks smaller still.

   Ms Tymoshenko avoids the sensitive issue of making Russian a second
   official language and no longer pushes for early entry into NATO,
   opposed by the south and east. Like most of her countrymen, she
   believes that the future of Ukraine lies in the European Union. But,
   claims Hryhory Nemyria, her chief adviser, there is a distinction. She
   does not see membership as a reward to be handed out merely for
   breaking out of the post-Soviet space, or as a source of quick
   economic goodies. "To her, being part of Europe means modernising
   Ukraine first," he says. "We can only come as close to the EU as we
   are ready."

   She also promises to clean up chronic corruption and sever the links
   between business and politics. (Each party in Ukraine is backed by
   powerful business interests, including her own.) Having made her
   fortune in murky gas trades between Russia and Ukraine in the early
   1990s, Ms Tymoshenko now says she will eliminate all shady
   intermediaries and make the gas trade transparent. As soon as she
   emerged as a potential winner this week, Gazprom, Russia's gas giant,
   started growling about the $1.3 billion of debt Ukraine owes for gas
   and threatened to cut off supplies, just as it did in January 2006.

   Ms Tymoshenko is the most professional politician in Ukraine, but also
   the most populist. She has promised within two years to reimburse the
   savings people lost when the Soviet Union collapsed--a pledge even her
   advisers say is unrealistic. Her period as prime minister in 2005 was
   marked by talk of reviewing privatisation deals and capping fuel
   prices. But she has learnt lessons, says Mr Nemyria, and is now more
   pragmatic. Whatever she does, though, she will be held accountable by
   those who voted for her, because Ukraine has since 2004 become a
   recognisable democracy in which power is granted and taken away on the
   basis of elections that are broadly free and fair.

   That is the biggest achievement of all by this former Soviet republic,
   and it is appreciated by losers as well as winners. As Yuri
   Miroshnychenko, a young member of the Party of the Regions, puts it:
   "There is no absolute power in Ukraine. We can work in opposition and
   her coming to power is not a tragedy for us. The most important thing
   is that Ukraine is moving in the right direction. Today it is becoming
   Europe. There is no way back."


   A better way to skin the Kremlin's cat 

   WHEN the rulers of the newly independent Russia surveyed their vast,
   fissiparous territory, there was one uppity Muslim region that worried
   them especially: not Chechnya, but Tatarstan, an oil-rich
   semi-autonomous republic on the Volga. Yet whereas Chechnya has been
   wrecked by war, and umpteen of its leaders have died violently,
   Tatarstan is still governed by Mintimer Shaimiev, the local boss since
   1989.

   Part of the difference is geography: Chechnya is on Russia's fraying
   Caucasian edge, which made it more susceptible to foreign extremism.
   Part is history. The brutal 19th-century conquest of the Caucasus
   created an enmity, wrote Tolstoy, "stronger than hatred, for [the
   Chechens] did not regard those Russian dogs as human beings."
   Tatarstan's capital, Kazan, fell to Ivan the Terrible in 1552--a
   defining moment in Russia's imperial history and imagination. Many
   Tatars, Russia's second-largest ethnic group, have long seen Russia as
   their country too. "This is our motherland," says Gusman Iskhakov,
   Tatarstan's mufti, "and you cannot choose your motherland."

   Still, in the early 1990s, says Mr Shaimiev, probably without
   exaggeration, demands for Tatar sovereignty threatened the integrity
   of the whole Russian federation. But by cannily portraying himself as
   both a champion of Tatar national feeling and a bulwark against it, Mr
   Shaimiev peacefully secured most of the attributes of a state
   (including overseas representation). The Chechens' big mistake, he
   says, was to declare independence outright: "Russia didn't gather
   these lands just to give them away."

   Mr Shaimiev's own rule could almost have been a model for Vladimir
   Putin's. Political competition and critical media have been squeezed.
   But, corruption notwithstanding, the economy is ticking over, as the
   construction cranes that rival the minarets in Kazan's skyline attest.
   With its special talent for blasphemy, the Soviet regime turned many
   of Kazan's mosques into stables and gyms. Now the mosques have
   reopened--and gratitude for the local religious revival seems to trump
   solidarity with Chechnya. "Glory to God that we have Shaimiev!" says
   the leader of an Islamic women's group. Chechen rebels' dreams of
   opening a "Volga front" have withered. Mr Shaimiev has become a useful
   prop in the Kremlin's Arab diplomacy.

   Still, like all regional governors, under Mr Putin's centralising
   reforms he is now subject to the indignity of re-appointment by the
   Kremlin: a temporary change, needed to establish order, Mr Shaimiev
   says tactfully, while also insisting that Tatarstan's right to elect
   its leader has been only suspended. Just as gratingly, a new treaty
   delineating his republic's powers has been held up in Russia's
   parliament (the old agreement, signed in the laissez-faire Yeltsin
   years, has expired). The few remaining nationalists are still hoping
   for a shock; after all, argues one, nobody predicted the end of the
   Soviet Union. More likely, after a fudge, Tatarstan and the eternal Mr
   Shaimiev will carry on much as before.


   After a good summer, Romano Prodi's government faces harder economic
   times

   HAS there ever been a sunnier Italian summer? August was dull, but
   June was radiant and July scorching. September is proving unseasonably
   hot. The sunniness has not been confined to the weather. At first
   blush, good news has been piling up on the desk of Italy's finance
   minister, Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa, ever since he said in June that the
   state of the public accounts was worse than in 1992 (the year Italy
   and Britain were forced out of Europe's exchange-rate mechanism).

   First it became clear that the economy was rebounding faster than
   expected. Last week the Paris-based OECD raised its forecast of
   Italy's 2006 GDP growth from 1.4% to 1.8% (though this is still the
   slowest in Europe). Then the government found that enhanced growth was
   feeding into higher tax revenues. So much so that Romano Prodi, the
   leader of Italy's centre-left government, was able to announce that he
   was jettisoning EUR5 billion ($6.5 billion) of the spending cuts that
   he had planned for 2007. He did not, he said, "want to make Italians
   weep".

   Since then some figures have got better still. Italy's public
   borrowing requirement for the first eight months of the year was
   EUR36.4 billion, some EUR22 billion less than in 2005. Officials are
   now pencilling in a 2006 budget deficit of 3.8-3.9% of GDP. But, in an
   analysis just posted on an Italian economics website,
   [3]www.lavoce.info, two of the country's leading public-finance
   experts, Tito Boeri and Pietro Garibaldi, argue that this is
   pessimistic and that nobody should be surprised "if we end the year
   not far off [the euro-area limit of] 3%". Either way, the picture
   looks far healthier than the 4.6% that is still forecast for next year
   by the OECD (see chart).

   All this seems bizarrely at odds with the growing belief, particularly
   in London, that Italy may risk falling out of the euro. A study being
   published shortly by a London-based think-tank, the Centre for
   European Reform (CER), puts the odds of this happening at a daunting
   40%. Mr Padoa-Schioppa is scathing about such talk. "My time is rather
   short, and I decided not to spend any of it on nonsensical scenarios,"
   he says. "That is a nonsensical scenario."

   Is it? There are, in fact, two variants of it. One envisages Italy's
   public finances deteriorating to the point where its debt loses
   investment grade (which would require only two further downgrades by
   the main rating agencies). That would sharply raise debt-servicing
   costs, pitching the government into a downward spiral of surging
   interest rates and rising deficits.

   The latest data make such an outcome much less likely in the immediate
   future. But there is a danger of the government's falling victim to
   complacency. For the left-wing parties in Mr Prodi's coalition will
   seize on any reports of smaller budget deficits to demand fewer cuts
   in next year's budget. If the world economy were suddenly to turn
   down, which is by no means impossible, the deterioration in Italy's
   public finances could be sudden.

   Italy has not only a substantial budget deficit but, more tellingly,
   the world's third-largest debt. Last year it rose for the first time
   as a percentage of GDP (to around 108%). The primary budget surplus
   (ie, before interest payments) shrank to 0.5% of GDP, down from almost
   5% in 2000. As the CER pamphlet notes, "Italy needs to run a primary
   budget surplus of 2-3% of GDP to prevent the ratio of public debt to
   GDP from rising further." In other words, Mr Padoa-Schioppa's warnings
   earlier this year were objectively true: for all the recent
   improvements, the underlying situation may be worse than in 1992.

   Given that, Mr Prodi's readiness to trim his planned budget cuts has,
   not surprisingly, caused concern. The OECD said it was "disappointed".
   An executive board member of the European Central Bank, Lorenzo Bini
   Smaghi, noted that revenue increases were a "temporary factor which
   may not be repeated". Joaquín Almunia, the European economics
   commissioner, stressed that, for a country whose debts exceed annual
   output, "tidying up public finances is not merely a case of bringing
   the budget deficit down". Seen from Brussels, Italy is increasingly
   the big test of the new (and weaker) stability pact, which is supposed
   to set fiscal rules for euro members. Under it, governments get more
   flexibility in bad times--but they are meant to show greater
   discipline in good times.

   Mr Padoa-Schioppa says that the cabinet agreed to the EUR5 billion
   relaxation because it matched the structural element of this year's
   revenue improvement. As for other budget cuts, he detects "a readiness
   to accept the basic adjustments we propose". However, the biggest
   communist party in government, which has refused to underwrite its
   medium-term economic strategy, is on record as saying that the budget
   plans are "unsustainable". The government is aiming to cut pensions,
   health spending, public-sector employment and local-government
   spending. All of these cuts are unpopular with one or more parties
   within the coalition.

   Yet it is the second variant of Italy leaving the euro that should
   perhaps be more worrying. This envisages the country pulling out
   because its competitiveness erodes to a point where membership becomes
   too painful. Indeed, it is this continuing loss of competitiveness,
   and not its public finances, that may be the biggest economic problem
   facing Italy. The CER study concludes that it is five minutes to
   midnight, and that the Italian government "needs to act now to ensure
   the country's long-term membership of the euro zone".

   Over the past few years Italian competitiveness has deteriorated at an
   alarming rate. Between 2000 and 2004 "total factor productivity" fell
   by an average of 1.2% a year, the worst performance in the EU 15
   countries. At the same time, both inflation and nominal wage growth
   have been higher than in other euro members, especially Germany.

   Mr Padoa-Schioppa sees his main task as "making the economy better fit
   for growth". The growth will depend largely on the efforts of the
   private sector and, to the extent that the public sector can help, on
   further liberalisation by ministries other than his own. But a
   defiantly reforming 2007 budget remains crucial to the country's
   economic prospects. Italy has, in effect, already used up this year's
   unexpected windfall. The government has three years ahead without any
   elections, when it could push through big reforms. If it fails to do
   so because some parties in the coalition resist, the consequences
   could be dire. The warmth of summer can give way to colder weather
   surprisingly quickly.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=42784658?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=9615537
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

   Young layabouts suffer a drought

   A NEW disease is abroad in eastern Germany: Frauenmangel, lack of
   women. In some towns there are only 75 young women for every 100 young
   men. In one or two there are as few as 40. The effects are worrying,
   not only because populations may shrink but also because of the
   existence of a growing underclass of young men who are partnerless,
   underqualified and jobless.

   A study by the Berlin Institute for Population and Development has
   looked at Herzberg and Ebersbach, two small towns in eastern Germany.
   "Even the mayor of Ebersbach hadn't realised this is going on," says
   Reiner Klingholz, the institute's director. It is a vicious spiral.
   Girls are more studious than boys, so they get better qualified and
   migrate west to find both partners and jobs. The boys lack role models
   at home, where fathers are often unemployed, and at school, where
   teachers are mostly female. Young men now account for 65% of German
   high-school dropouts.

   The few women who stay prefer single parenthood to hitching themselves
   to useless partners--benefits for single mothers are generous. It is
   women who are now masters of their destinies. The study, which
   combines reportage with figures, tells of frustrated gangs of youths
   drinking outside supermarkets and sleeping on their loading ramps.

   What can be done? Eastern Germany is now a laboratory for the rest of
   Europe, says Mr Klingholz, since other places are starting to see the
   same phenomenon. Better education is the key. "We have to take the
   risk that the young men will then emigrate too," he says. At least
   they will find jobs more easily. The federal government wants to
   identify two "model regions" where it can spend money on urban renewal
   and health, education and sports facilities. This smacks of too little
   too late--it is 17 years since unification. But it is better than the
   "watering-can" of sprinkling cash everywhere in hopes that something
   grows.

   The despair shows itself in many ways. The death rate among young men
   in Mecklenburg-West Pomerania, in eastern Germany, is twice as high as
   in the west's North-Rhine Westphalia, mainly because of road accidents
   (despite there being fewer cars). And the most fertile ground for the
   extreme-right NPD is now in places with a shortage of women, not high
   unemployment.


    Gomorrah: A Personal Journey into the Violent International Empire of
                                           Naples' Organized Crime System
                        By Roberto Saviano. Translated by Virginia Jewiss
                                                         [0374165270.jpg]
                               Farrar, Straus and Giroux; 320 pages; $25.
                                                        Macmillan; £16.99
                                                                Buy it at
                                                            [3]Amazon.com
                                                          [4]Amazon.co.uk

   CONVENTIONAL wisdom has it that Italy's economy is failing, in part
   because it cannot produce corporations big enough to compete
   internationally. "Gomorrah" is a useful corrective to that view.

   Roberto Saviano demonstrates that the Camorra, the Naples Mafia which
   provides the word-play for his book's title, is doing just fine in the
   globalised economy. Once a web of mobsters whose most international
   activity was smuggling cigarettes, the Camorra eases uninspected
   Chinese goods into Europe and provides loans at usurious rates to the
   sweatshops that produce many of the elegant garments Italy sells
   abroad. It imports arms from eastern Europe and exports them to Basque
   guerrillas. Its various clans launder money through businesses
   scattered from Taiwan to Brno, from Miami Beach, Florida, to Five
   Dock, New South Wales.

   Mr Saviano believes in smelling "the hot breath of reality". By
   getting to the scene of killings before the police have a chance to
   clear away the gore, by riding his scooter for hours round the
   open-air drug supermarket in Secondigliano, even talking to young
   Camorra recruits, he has produced one of the most enthralling and
   disturbing books written on organised crime. He takes his readers to a
   world where teenage gangsters are inducted by being shot at in
   bulletproof vests; where the female bodyguards of a woman mobster wear
   sunglasses and T-shirts of the same yellow as Uma Thurman's outfit in
   the film "Kill Bill". He describes the "submarines"--so-called because
   of their invisibility--who run the Camorra's extensive welfare system.
   And he records a telephone conversation in which two mobsters calmly
   discuss the date for a torture session.

   It is as close to the Camorra as most readers will want to get. By
   going there himself, Mr Saviano has written a book that has so far
   sold 750,000 copies in Italy alone. He has also earned himself death
   threats and a round-the-clock police escort. Like a lot of young
   Italians (he is 28) brought up on an intellectual diet of Catholicism
   and Marxism, he sees liberalism as more of a threat than an
   opportunity. "The logic of criminal business coincides with the most
   aggressive neoliberalism," he claims. But it doesn't. Liberalism
   aspires to free competition; gangsters build cartels.

   Occasionally, too, Mr Saviano's passion can lead him to assertions
   that are more convenient than proven. He claims primacy for the
   Camorra among Italy's five Mafias. Few policemen or prosecutors would
   concur; most believe that the Calabrian version is even more
   dangerous. The author's style is a little rich for easy digestion and
   the translation is over-literal.

   But the great value of "Gomorrah" is to highlight two points: the
   power and wealth that southern Italy's Mafias have accumulated in
   recent years, and the fact that their globalisation makes them an
   issue of concern for us all. His description of the effects of gang
   war on ordinary people ("Women stop wearing high heels--too hard to
   run in them") is masterly. His final chapter, set in the apocalyptic
   wilderness of the Camorra's smouldering waste dumps, is inspired--and
   prescient, as the garbage crisis in Naples unfolds.
   Gomorrah: A Personal Journey into the Violent International Empire of
   Naples' Organized Crime System.
   By Roberto Saviano. Translated by Virginia Jewiss.
   Farrar, Straus and Giroux; 320 pages; $25.
   Macmillan; £16.99


   Vladimir Putin did not rig the ballot to win control of parliament,
   but to assert his power over the Kremlin's warring factions

                                                                       AP

                                     AP


   NOTHING was left to chance in Russia's parliamentary election. As
   polling stations closed on December 2nd, large lorries with military
   and riot police surrounded Moscow's main squares. There was no need
   for them: the city was quiet and nobody was protesting. Nor was there
   any need for the "tourist" buses ferrying voters from far-flung
   regions to cast multiple ballots in one polling station after another.
   "We have been going around polling stations since lunch time,"
   grumbled one man, "and they have not paid us yet."

   President Vladimir Putin's United Russia party would have won anyway.
   The victory it secured, 64% of the vote, was in line with the
   predictions of independent opinion polls. Yet the entire machinery of
   the authoritarian state--including courts, prosecutors, media and
   security agencies--was pressed into service to maximise the turnout.
   It was particularly high in Chechnya and Ingushetia--the most troubled
   North Caucasus republics--where 99% of residents voted for United
   Russia. "It is an interesting result," said Dmitry Peskov, a Kremlin
   spokesman, "but we have no reason to doubt it." Many Western leaders
   thought otherwise. The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said that
   "measured by our standards, it was neither a free, fair nor democratic
   election."

   By putting himself on the United Russia party list, Mr Putin turned
   the election into a referendum on his own popularity--odd, given that
   his rating is already close to 80%. So why so much nervousness and
   what was Mr Putin trying to prove? Plainly, he wants to retain a firm
   grip on power after the expiry of his second term in office (by the
   constitution his last stint) in three months' time. Yet the simplest
   way to achieve this would have been to change the constitution a year
   ago to allow him to stay on. Respect for the law has never been Mr
   Putin's strongest point.

   Indeed, it is widely believed that some, including Igor Sechin, the
   deputy chief of staff in the Kremlin and the informal leader of the
   siloviki, the clan of former KGB men, urged him to make such a change.
   With little prodding, parliament would have amended the constitution
   and two-thirds of the country would have supported it. The West, after
   some grumbling, would have come to terms with it.

   Deciphering Mr Putin's real motives is a murky business, as much a
   matter of psychoanalysis as of political interpretation. It is
   possible that until recently Mr Putin genuinely wanted to leave the
   Kremlin and become an international figure bathing in luxury and
   respect. Staying on might have turned him into a hostage to those
   seeking to protect their financial interests. As one Yeltsin-era
   oligarch put it: "You stay for the third term--you may never leave."

   If so, why the change of heart? The answer almost certainly lies in
   the ever more vicious--and open--rivalry among the Kremlin's political
   clans. Perhaps Mr Putin upset so many rich and powerful people that
   the prospect of losing control over the transition of power may simply
   have been too dangerous for his inner circle, and for himself. For all
   his talk about foreign threats and domestic enemies, what Mr Putin
   really fears is his entourage and a war among the clans. Winston
   Churchill once described the Kremlin's political tussles as being like
   a fight among bulldogs under a carpet: outsiders hear plenty of
   growling but have few clues about the victor's identity until it
   emerges.

   Consider the latest strange noises from beneath the carpet. Two months
   before the election, a fight broke out among Mr Putin's men, resulting
   in the arrest of a general from a drugs-fighting agency accused of
   tapping the phones of the Federal Security Service (FSB). The arrest
   prompted an article from the general's boss, Viktor Cherkesov, one of
   Mr Putin's close allies, warning of the fatal danger of a feud within
   the security agencies, "a war in which there can be no winners".

   A few weeks later, the deputy finance minister, Sergei Storchak, was
   arrested on embezzlement charges. Kremlinologists are confident that
   the arrest was aimed at Alexei Kudrin, the liberal finance minister,
   recently elevated by Mr Putin. Mr Kudrin's plea to see his deputy and
   let him out on bail was ignored.

   Then, just two days before the election, a page-long interview was
   published in a mainstream business newspaper, Kommersant. In it, a
   fund manager, Oleg Shvartsman, claimed that his $3.2 billion fund was
   "closely connected" to the Kremlin's administration and security
   services. He talked of a "velvet reprivatisation" which involved
   "voluntary-coercive" methods. He told Kommersant he reported
   indirectly to Mr Sechin, who also chairs the Rosneft oil company. Mr
   Shvartsman later said his words had been distorted, but the newspaper
   stands by its story.

   Some say the candid interview was aimed at Mr Sechin; others suggest
   it was his own warning "salvo". Either way, it was serious enough for
   the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to pull out of
   creating a Russian venture-capital fund with Mr Shvartsman. Anatoly
   Chubais, the powerful head of the electricity monopoly, said that
   "intentionally or not, Mr Shvartsman told the truth".

   Caught in his own system, Mr Putin seems to have decided he could not
   rely on any of the factions. All he could do, says Lilia Shevtsova,
   senior associate at the Carnegie Moscow Centre, was to appeal directly
   to the nation. This is why he turned the parliamentary election into a
   display of his own power. It is not the Russian people, or the outside
   world, who needed convincing of his strength, but his own elites.
   Whether they heed Mr Putin will become clear in the next few weeks,
   when he names his chosen successor.


   There may be an election in September, but it might not solve any
   problems


   FOR a man trapped in a political crisis, Viktor Yushchenko, the
   president of Ukraine, seems calm, almost philosophical. But then
   political crises have become the norm in Ukrainian politics ever since
   he was swept to power after the "orange revolution" in 2004-05.

   One outcome then was a political deal to transfer much presidential
   power to the parliament. That deal lies behind the struggle that
   culminated in Mr Yushchenko's decree in April dissolving parliament
   and calling a fresh election. Mr Yushchenko says he had no choice but
   to act after Viktor Yanukovich, whom he defeated in 2004 but who
   returned as prime minister two years later, had used "bribery and
   pressure" to amass an illegitimately big majority in parliament.
   "[They] thought it would be possible to violate the constitution and
   establish a majority in a non-constitutional way, but that no
   dissolution of parliament would follow. That was a mistake," says Mr
   Yushchenko. The prime minister's camp retort that the president has
   exceeded his powers.

   Both sides appealed to the courts. Legalistic arguments brought them
   to the brink of violence last week after Mr Yushchenko sacked the
   prosecutor-general and tried to consolidate his grip on the security
   services. Mr Yanukovich, who has authority over the police, ordered
   armed commandos to restore order. Yet the tussle between two branches
   of the security services had a sobering effect on both men. "Both
   sides got scared, not even about the consequences of a potentially
   violent clash, but by the very fact that it could take place," says
   Petro Poroshenko, an ally of the president.

   In the small hours of May 27th, Mr Yanukovich and Mr Yushchenko
   declared a truce. They agreed to hold an election on September 30th.
   But this truce was followed by more parliamentary squabbling and
   prevarication. The deadline for agreeing a September election came and
   went, the fate of the prosecutor-general was undecided and the
   interior minister, an ally of Mr Yanukovich, reportedly had a heart
   attack. Even if the election goes ahead in September, it is unlikely
   to change the political constellation in Ukraine enough to resolve the
   country's underlying divisions.

   So far, at least, the political crisis in Ukraine has remained only
   that. The people who three years ago gathered on Kiev's Independence
   Square to support the orange revolution are now, like Mr Yushchenko
   himself, resigned and philosophical about what they regard as a
   political circus. The bigger concern is no longer a violent
   counter-revolution: it is that all the political parties will forfeit
   the trust of their people.


   The euro prepares to take in Malta and Cyprus


   "EVER since the 11th century, when the Arabs were ejected, Malta has
   looked to the north," says its central-bank governor, Michael Bonello.
   On July 10th the European Union's smallest member took its biggest
   step north since its entry three years ago. It received approval from
   EU finance ministers to join the euro next January, along with Cyprus,
   taking membership up to 15.

   "For a trading nation like ours, it is one headache less," says Mr
   Bonello. Malta does three-quarters of its trade with the EU.
   Membership of the euro eliminates the cost of swapping into and out of
   a currency used nowhere but a small Mediterranean island. It will help
   tourists from the euro area and the growing number of overseas firms
   drawn by Malta's sunny climate and well-educated, English-speaking
   workforce.

   An even better reason for joining the euro is what Malta had to do to
   qualify. It is a textbook case of the beneficial effects of meeting
   the entry criteria. Three years ago, Malta's public debt was almost
   75% of GDP and its budget deficit nearly 5%. To qualify for
   membership, Lawrence Gonzi's centre-right government imposed austerity
   measures that would have been unthinkable without the lure of euro
   entry.

   British colonial rule, which ended in 1964, left the islanders with a
   large public sector, a generous welfare state and a pervasive
   jobs-for-life, state-will-provide outlook. Yet in recent years the
   workforce at the Valletta docks, once the hub of Malta's economy, has
   been cut by 3,000. The island's loss-making national shipping line has
   been closed, and its telecoms firm and airport privatised. The
   government has frozen public employment and wrung from the unions a
   six-year deal on public-sector wages.

   As the opposition Malta Labour Party (MLP) stresses, the government
   has also had to raise taxes. Alfred Sant, the MLP leader, has been
   iffy about joining the euro, as he was about the EU, and complains
   that "they promised the moon and stars. But it has been a hard slog."
   The ruling Nationalists are five points behind in the polls, and have
   lost every local election for four years. Yet Mr Gonzi is optimistic
   that his reforms will bear fruit before he faces re-election: "We are
   reaping the benefits and I believe people are seeing that." GDP growth
   in the first quarter was a perky 3.5% (at an annual rate). The
   government cut the tax burden in its 2007 budget. Unemployment is the
   lowest in 12 years.

   Still, it is with a rueful smile that Mr Gonzi quotes his Luxembourg
   counterpart, Jean-Claude Juncker: "Every finance minister knows what
   to do. But then no one knows how to win the next election." Malta's is
   due next year.


   In the final paragraph of our [3]story on Ukraine last week, the
   parties got jumbled up. Our Ukraine is Viktor Yushchenko's, the Party
   of the Regions is Viktor Yanukovich's.


   Russia's opposition is feeble, floundering and fading 


   AT A recent gathering of Other Russia, a loose coalition of liberals,
   nationalists and communists who oppose President Vladimir Putin, a
   pro-Kremlin youth group lit candles and played a funeral march. The
   stunt cut close to the bone.

   Russia's opposition may not yet be dead, but it is in a deep coma. The
   Kremlin has hollowed out politics by rigging rules on parties and
   elections. It has made it hard for the opposition to put its case on
   television and sent truncheon-wielding police to dispel protesters.
   But infighting, lack of ideas and above all low public support have
   done as much to hurt the opposition. Just four months before a
   parliamentary election and eight months before the presidential poll,
   it is divided, demoralised and lacks a single candidate. Mr Putin's
   approval rating, meanwhile, stands at a majestic, if
   propaganda-fuelled, 85%.

   Some of Other Russia's key figures, including Mikhail Kasyanov, an
   ex-prime minister, and Vladimir Ryzhkov, an independent member of
   parliament, have left after a split with Garry Kasparov, a former
   world chess champion turned activist, largely because of clashing
   ambitions and trivial rows over procedure. Mr Kasparov and Mr
   Kasyanov, who says he wants to be president, argued for seven hours
   just over how to nominate candidates for parliament and the
   presidency. Their bickering has let down those who have risked
   attending Other Russia protests. "The bear has not yet been killed,
   but they're already trying to divide its skin," says Eduard Limonov,
   leader of the banned National Bolshevik Party (see [4]article).

   The two older liberal parties, Yabloko and the Union of Right Forces
   (SPS), have hardly fared better. For years they have failed to
   combine, though both seek votes from the same sort of people; neither
   passed the 5% threshold for representation at the last parliamentary
   election, four years ago. That threshold has now been raised to 7%;
   the latest polls suggest that neither has a chance of getting over it.
   "I'm not scared of the Kremlin, but when you can't agree among your
   own people, it's time to leave politics," says Irina Khakamada, who
   was a candidate for the presidency in 2004.

   But the truth is that both SPS and Yabloko anyway tend to stay within
   bounds set by the Kremlin. SPS was founded and is funded by Anatoly
   Chubais, who runs Russia's state-backed electricity monopoly. He gets
   on well with Mr Putin and relies on his support for electricity
   reform. SPS is not planning to put up its own challenger for the
   presidency (which the Kremlin's candidate will almost certainly win).
   It is even nervous about putting some of its more outspoken activists
   on its list for the parliamentary elections.

   The problem, however, runs deeper. As Boris Nemtsov, one of the SPS's
   more plausible leaders, says: "There is no real demand for a liberal
   opposition in Russian society." Many Russians still associate liberals
   such as Messrs Nemtsov and Chubais with impoverishment, chaos and loss
   of national pride in the 1990s. As members of Boris Yeltsin's
   government, they talked of macroeconomic stability and fiscal
   discipline but never presented policies that resonated among ordinary
   Russians. Some of their oft-maligned reforms have come to fruition,
   ironically, under Mr Putin: helped by high oil prices, the economy is
   growing around 7% a year, the government budget is in surplus,
   inflation has been tamed and debt paid off.

   Few Russians care enough about freedom of speech or human rights to
   risk their improving lifestyle. "The Kremlin has done a deal with the
   Russian people," says Mr Kasyanov. `"Citizens! Enjoy life, travel
   abroad, buy cars, but don't get involved in politics...If your
   patriotic feelings start to stir, we'll satisfy them.'"

   Indeed, whereas the appetite for liberal ideas is weak, nationalism
   remains strong. The Kremlin has set up parties of every hue to split
   and steal the opposition vote, while squashing any party it cannot
   control--and the nationalist simulacrums have fared worryingly well.
   If anyone breaks through the Kremlin's stranglehold, it is unlikely to
   be the liberals.


   The delicate diplomacy over the handling of Kosovo's looming
   independence


   A JOKE has been circulating among diplomats concerned with the
   Balkans. The reply to the question, "what comes after December 10th?"
   is "December 11th." And so it has proved. The 10th was the deadline
   for a mission led by ambassadors from the European Union, America and
   Russia to report to the United Nations on the outcome of negotiations
   between Serbia and its breakaway province of Kosovo. In the event, the
   talks produced so little that the report was handed in early.

   It would be wrong to conclude that nothing has changed after the
   failure of the troika's talks. The end of almost two years of
   diplomatic efforts to find an agreement means that one chapter on
   Kosovo has closed and a new one is opening. A period of turbulence
   lies ahead, and it could even be accompanied by a few spasms of
   violence. But it is almost inconceivable that there will be a general
   return to the Balkan wars of the 1990s.

   Kosovo is the last remaining piece of the former Yugoslav jigsaw. Some
   90% of its 2m people are ethnic Albanians who have long demanded
   independence. Unlike the six countries that have already emerged from
   the old Yugoslavia, Kosovo was not a republic but a province--and one
   with a special historical significance for Serbs. Serbia's present
   leaders have offered maximum autonomy, but Kosovo's Albanians have
   said they will settle for nothing less than independence.

   On December 19th the UN Security Council will take up the question.
   Russia, Serbia's backer, will demand that talks continue. This will be
   rejected by America and the EU countries, who say there is nothing
   left to discuss. At the same time, Western diplomats are working out
   next steps. Serbia is to hold a two-round presidential election in
   January and February. The Kosovo Albanians are being asked to hold off
   declaring independence before then, in a bid to boost the chances of
   the pro-European incumbent, Boris Tadic.

   The diplomats are trying to find a legal cover to replace the UN
   mission in Kosovo with one from the EU. This is proving hard. Kosovo
   is governed by the Security Council's resolution 1244, which says it
   is part of Yugoslavia, to which Serbia is the legal successor state.
   "On this the Serbs and the Russians probably have the law on their
   side," sighs a top European diplomat. "But then this is a political
   decision, not a legal one."

   Once Kosovo declares independence, it is likely to be recognised by
   the Americans, most EU members and many Muslim countries. Serbia may
   try to blockade the new country, apart from the Serb-inhabited part of
   Mitrovica and the north that it already, in effect, runs. So this may
   turn into Europe's newest "frozen conflict". Kosovo exports nothing to
   Serbia, but Serbian exports to Kosovo amount to EUR200m ($280m) a
   year. This trade may be diverted through Montenegro and Macedonia.

   The biggest worry concerns the 50,000 or more Serbs who live in
   enclaves scattered across Kosovo proper. Most, but not all, seem to be
   staying put. If the birth of a new Kosovo is accompanied by violence
   these are the most vulnerable targets.

   As for Serbia, it is at a fork in the road. The EU's leaders may
   soften the blow over Kosovo by waiving a precondition that the country
   co-operate in full with the Yugoslav war-crimes tribunal in The Hague
   before signing a stabilisation and association agreement that would
   bring it large sums of aid. But Vojislav Kostunica, Serbia's prime
   minister, says it is insulting to believe that his country would trade
   Kosovo for eventual EU membership, and even hints that his country
   might refuse to sign the deal. Others close to Mr Tadic retort that
   Serbia has nowhere else to go.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=26753911?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=10110247
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

   Why it is so hard to convict anybody in Italy

   WHEN the long-awaited corruption trial of Silvio Berlusconi, Italy's
   former prime minister, and his former lawyer, David Mills, the
   estranged husband of Tessa Jowell, a British cabinet minister, opened
   on March 13th, the courtroom in Milan was packed. Eighteen judges,
   lawyers and clerks were there, with a trolley full of dog-eared
   folders and documents. Yet in the four hours of legal argument that
   followed, nobody gave even a hint that what they were all doing was
   essentially futile.

   Because of legislation introduced when Mr Berlusconi was prime
   minister, his trial, plus the two appeals allowed under Italian law,
   have to be completed by next February. Otherwise the case
   automatically lapses under Italy's statute of limitations.

   Giuseppe Gennaro, president of the Italian national magistrates'
   association, says that the entire judicial process takes more than
   eight years on average. It is highly unlikely that the case against Mr
   Berlusconi and Mr Mills will be dispatched in 11 months. Trials in
   Italy do not even take place continuously. In this case, the earliest
   day on which the protagonists could attend a second hearing was March
   22nd, but a lawyers' strike is due to take place that day.

   The trial of Mr Berlusconi and Mr Mills, in which the defendants deny
   giving and receiving a $600,000 bribe, offers an insight into the
   surreal world of Italian justice. For the statute of limitations,
   which makes it almost impossible for prosecutors to convict anybody of
   white-collar crimes, is not the only problem.

   After Mr Berlusconi left office, parliament granted a partial amnesty
   that reduced by three years the sentences for any offences committed
   before the statute came into effect (not just those that had already
   been tried). The government said this measure was necessary to clear
   out the jails; some 26,000 prisoners have since been freed. But for
   the first time since 1948, the amnesty was not accompanied by a pardon
   (extinguishing the offences themselves).

   For untried offences, says Mr Gennaro, "this means that it is
   necessary to hold the trial and at the end, in the event of a guilty
   verdict, pass a sentence that cannot be carried out." Since Italian
   justice moves so slowly, most cases before the courts now concern
   offences committed before the amnesty. A report by a body overseeing
   the judiciary concluded last year that over 90% of trials in the next
   five years could be pointless.

   Prosecutors in Italy are answerable only to their immediate superiors.
   Some have grasped the amnesty as a chance to reduce their backlog of
   work by shelving cases that cannot result in a sentence. Others,
   including the prosecutors in the Berlusconi and Mills case, have taken
   the purist view that they should not pick and choose. "They may feel
   they don't have the authority to decide," says Mr Gennaro, the palms
   of his hands upturned in a gesture of resignation. In any event, Mr
   Berlusconi and Mr Mills are in no real danger of going to jail.


   Slow growth, rising taxes: an unhappy combination for Italians 

   THE Italian language has no word for hangover. Yet the Italian people
   began 2008 with a worse one than most. Just before Christmas they
   learnt that in 2006 they were officially overtaken by Spain in GDP per
   head (see chart), which though not unexpected still came as a shock.
   And there is near-universal conviction among ordinary Italians that
   they personally are poorer than they were 12 months ago.

   Yet the statisticians say otherwise, insisting that Italy's GDP grew
   by 1.8% in 2007, even if it is now slowing again (officials also
   dispute the Spanish superación (surmounting), but that is another
   matter). One explanation can be found in a spacious office in Rome.
   Vincenzo Visco, deputy finance minister in Romano Prodi's centre-left
   government in charge of collecting taxes, had a splendid 2007.
   Government revenues soared by some EUR25 billion ($35 billion), after
   a jump of EUR36 billion in 2006. Part of the rise was due to GDP
   growth; part to measures taken by the previous government of Silvio
   Berlusconi. But an official report to parliament last October
   attributes almost two-fifths of the revenue rise to improved tax
   collection.

   Italians' ability to cling to their earnings and profits is legendary.
   The untaxed (black) economy was reckoned in 2004 to account for a
   sixth of GDP, some 60% above the OECD average. To judge by their
   returns in the same year, Italian lawyers and dentists earned on
   average less than EUR50,000; restaurant owners barely EUR20,000; taxi
   drivers a pitiful EUR11,500. In 2005 only half of Italy's limited
   companies admitted to making any profits at all. Under- and
   non-invoicing to avoid value-added tax (VAT) are common.

   The silver-haired Mr Visco has unleashed a determined campaign to get
   his compatriots to mend their ways. He has stepped up the inspection
   of shops, bars and restaurants; obliged middle-class professionals to
   accept payment by cheque; and curbed the use by firms of offshore
   fiscal havens. He grabbed public attention with an investigation into
   the tax affairs of one of the country's best-known sporting figures,
   Valentino Rossi, a motorcyclist. Most important, he has pushed through
   legislation to allow the finance police and civilian inspectors to
   cross-reference data from different sources, including bank accounts.
   "People now know we know," he says ominously. Last year, it was
   reckoned, more than half the improved tax compliance was "voluntary".

   The effects of Mr Visco's clampdown are evident, even if the cause is
   rarely acknowledged. The cost of eating out has leapt as restaurants
   pass on the full cost of VAT. Lawyers report business deals unwinding
   as people make greater provision for tax. Centre-left politicians fret
   over what the new stringency might do to areas such as Naples, where
   huge swathes of the economy are black. More self-interestedly, they
   worry that much of the opposition's substantial lead in the opinion
   polls may be due to Mr Visco's exactions.

   Well over half of Italy's 40m taxpayers are wage earners and
   pensioners who have their taxes deducted at source. They ought to back
   the new clampdown. Yet many are as hostile as the self-employed and
   employers. This is because, even as it tackles tax evasion, the
   government has increased the overall tax burden. Companies won some
   relief last year with a reduction in corporation tax, but many
   individuals (especially the single and those not owning a home) are
   worse off. Proposals for selective cuts in tax rates have won support
   even from the trade unions.

   Nicola Rossi, a rare liberal in the ruling majority, argues that
   taxpayers are being saddled "to an absolutely unreasonable extent"
   with extra bureaucracy. He wants to see money clawed back from tax
   dodgers spent on cutting tax rates for those who have no option but to
   pay. As it happens, in this he is supported by Mr Visco himself.

   One reason the government finds this hard is made clear in a recent
   study by two economists, Tito Boeri and Pietro Garibaldi. They have
   found that over two-thirds of the extra tax revenues are going towards
   more spending, much of it beyond the control of central government and
   a lot of it used by politicians to dispense patronage and appease
   vested interests. "Until they cut spending, I don't think they'll be
   able to cut taxes," concludes Mr Boeri. Spending has recently been
   rising, "like a train" in Mr Boeri's words, by a steady 2% a year in
   real terms. For the good of the economy, and of the centre-left,
   somebody needs to find the brake soon.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=78925758?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=9431900
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

   The dangers for a president of trying to do too much


   DURING his election campaign, Nicolas Sarkozy promised a rupture with
   the past. But who could have predicted how fast he would junk the
   well-worn traditions of the presidency? On January 8th, in his first
   full press conference, Mr Sarkozy answered a question about his love
   life (his romance with Carla Bruni was "serious", though he would not
   specify wedding plans). By listing a raft of projects--the abolition
   of advertising on state television, an end to the 35-hour week, an
   obligation on companies to boost profit-sharing--he also displayed his
   micro-management style, without raising an eyebrow. Like it or not,
   hyperprésidentialisation is here to stay.

   In the past, a French president would shape the contours of policy and
   take care of diplomacy and defence, leaving the prime minister to toil
   away at details. The rarity of presidential appearances under François
   Mitterrand and Jacques Chirac dignified the office and sanctified the
   message. Not in Sarkoland. The prime minister, François Fillon, is as
   invisible as his boss is omnipresent--Mr Sarkozy once reportedly
   called him his "assistant". Cabinet ministers are closely supervised
   by advisers at the Elysée. Indeed, Mr Sarkozy sometimes does their
   job: he took over negotiations with the unions on university reform,
   he travelled to Brussels to plead France's case at a finance
   ministers' meeting. Ministers can even be caught short by presidential
   announcements. When Mr Sarkozy said the state would sell another 3% of
   the electricity giant EDF, he took the finance ministry by surprise.
   "Only a very few ministers have real autonomy," says one top official.
   "I've never worked under such a centralised presidency."

   Mr Sarkozy has a taste for plain-talking confrontation and a forceful
   character that may enable him to get deals that others cannot. His
   hyperactive style also fits a strategy to reinvent the presidency and
   break with the stuffy past. "He wants to change the conception of the
   presidency," says an adviser. "To be every day in contact with people
   and their concerns, not just shut up in the palace." Hence a dizzying
   stream of trips, speeches, photo opportunities and meetings with
   ordinary folk.

   Hyperprésidentialisation has its critics. Some fret that Mr Sarkozy is
   undermining the dignity of his office. Even as he has jetted about
   with Ms Bruni, earning from one newspaper the nickname "President
   bling-bling", his ratings have slid. Others complain about the
   concentration of powers. The president, as head of the armed forces
   and with the power to dissolve parliament and change ministers at
   will, is already hugely powerful. Now Mr Sarkozy wants to change the
   constitution to allow the president to address parliament. Laurent
   Joffrin, editor of the left-leaning Libération, this week accused Mr
   Sarkozy of installing "an elective monarchy".

   Yet Mr Sarkozy's planned constitutional reforms include others to make
   parliament a stronger counterweight: rights to oversee presidential
   nominations and authorise long-term military engagements abroad, as
   well as limits on the use of decrees. Nor is Mr Sarkozy the first
   president of the Fifth Republic to treat the office as an executive
   job. Charles de Gaulle, architect of the directly elected presidency,
   once admonished a minister: "Don't refer to the prime minister as the
   head of government. The head of government is me."

   Even so, Mr Sarkozy's approach carries risks. He wants to end the
   "deplorable tradition of...hypocrisy and lies" of past presidents
   about their private lives, but how keen will he be on American-style
   transparency if his romance chills? More important, previous
   presidents have found it handy to dump their prime minister when
   things go wrong. By casting himself in the starring role, Mr Sarkozy
   will have nobody to blame but himself.


   With French support


   IT TAKES a lot for an Englishman to speak French in public. Yet Tony
   Blair, who has made a habit of it, did it again on January 12th,
   delivering a speech in praise of reform and European unity to members
   of France's centre-right ruling party--all in respectable French.
   Commentators argued that only one prize could explain why the former
   British prime minister (and nominally centre-left politician) put
   himself through the ordeal. At the meeting, President Nicolas Sarkozy
   came close to giving explicit backing to Mr Blair to become the
   European Union's first full-time president.

   Under the new Lisbon treaty, the EU's 27 members will be represented
   by a single figure, serving for two-and-a-half years. That replaces
   the system which sees countries take it in turns to chair EU meetings
   for six months. Hailing his guest as one of Europe's "great men", Mr
   Sarkozy called on Europe to "aim high", and not settle for a
   compromise figure. That certainly sounded like an endorsement, though
   Mr Sarkozy has also praised Jean-Claude Juncker, the chain-smoking
   Luxembourg prime minister, and dark master of the EU's arts.

   Mr Sarkozy hopes the new chief will be chosen late this year, when
   France holds the club's rotating presidency. But that can happen only
   if the treaty is ratified by all 27 members during 2008: a long shot.
   Just as likely, the president will be chosen in a horse-trading
   marathon in 2009, which will also pick a head of the European
   Commission (roughly, the EU's bureaucracy) and a new foreign-policy
   chief.

   Would Mr Blair get the job? Iraq counts against him. So does Britain's
   semi-detached EU status: it remains outside the single currency and
   has multiple opt-outs. Would Mr Blair want the job? Maybe not. A
   tussle looms over who will be the face of the EU abroad, the president
   or foreign-policy chief. If that fight goes the wrong way, the new
   president could languish in Brussels chairing dull summits. More fun
   to tour the world speechifying, in any language.


   The ruling coalition wobbles, but survives for now


   OUTSIDERS often mock Poland's prickly, obstinate prime minister,
   Jaroslaw Kaczynski. But a collapse of his government, followed by
   months of instability, might be worse. An anti-corruption watchdog
   this week named a deputy prime minister, the temperamental farmers'
   leader Andrzej Lepper, in a bribery scandal. Mr Kaczynski promptly
   sacked him (for the second time).

   Mr Lepper, who denies any wrongdoing, threatened to take his party,
   Self-Defence, out of the coalition. That would have meant minority
   rule and perhaps an early election, bogging down Poland's haphazard
   reforms completely. The European Union's most unpredictable member
   would be even harder to handle. But Self-Defence does not want an
   election campaign in which its already pungent reputation for cronyism
   might take centre stage. Fearing a revolt, Mr Lepper apparently backed
   down, suggesting his party may stay in the coalition "conditionally".

   Mr Kaczynski's Law and Justice Party may also want to defuse a row
   with its hardline Catholic supporters before facing voters. Father
   Tadeusz Rydzyk, who runs a highly politicised media empire, recently
   called Mr Kaczynski's sister-in-law a "witch" who deserved
   "euthanasia" because of her support for abortion. That prompted a
   rebuke from her husband, Lech Kaczynski, Jaroslaw's twin brother and
   Poland's president.

   Law and Justice's embrace has proved near-fatal to the other coalition
   party, the nationalist League of Polish Families. It may now do the
   same for Self-Defence. Mr Kaczynski can thus safely go for an early
   election whenever he chooses. But his canny politicking is not matched
   by ability to govern. Attempts at health reform, for example, have
   brought doctors at more than 200 hospitals out on strike. Nurses
   demanding higher wages are camping in tents outside Mr Kaczynski's
   office. They say he has broken election pledges to help losers from
   the post-1989 transition, such as ill-paid public-sector workers.

   The government has also failed to reform public finances, essential if
   Poland is to follow Cyprus and Malta into the euro (see [4]article).
   Its main boasts are reforms in the intelligence services, stronger
   anti-corruption efforts and weeding out communist-era secret-police
   collaborators. These may have been worthwhile, but the government's
   approach has been highly partisan, even vengeful. Public
   administration is lamentably backward.

   As the political system fails to reflect Poles' exasperation with
   their poor quality of life, many are voting with their feet. Some 2m
   have gone abroad since Poland joined the EU, and a recent survey found
   another 3m planning to do the same. This is aggravating labour
   shortages that may undermine the country's competitiveness.

   Poland's foreign policy is also being mismanaged. At the recent EU
   summit, Mr Kaczynski won a delay on new voting rules that will reduce
   Poland's weight. But the victory was marred by his graceless approach,
   using Poland's wartime suffering at German hands as a bargaining chip.
   It was Germany that pushed hardest for Poland's EU entry. Now German
   diplomats in Warsaw say relations cannot improve so long as the
   Kaczynskis are in power.

   On the foreign front, things may get worse still. Law and Justice has
   just suspended its most sensible foreign-affairs expert, Pawel
   Zalewski. A deputy leader of the party, he dared to quiz the
   lightweight foreign minister, Anna Fotyga, at a parliamentary hearing.
   The disconnection between Poland and its EU partners was underlined
   when a Polish candidate to run the IMF was brushed aside. Both Poland
   and the EU would like to see a strong, dependable government in
   Warsaw. It may be some time before they get one.


   The star couple at the top of the Socialist Party splits up


   THE public interest stops at the bedroom door. That has long been an
   unspoken rule of French politics. President François Mitterrand kept
   his mistress and their daughter hidden from voters for years. But what
   happens when both halves of a couple are in the public eye? That was
   the dilemma for Ségolène Royal, defeated Socialist presidential
   candidate, whose partner, François Hollande, happens to be the
   Socialist Party's boss.

   This week, in a highly unFrench declaration, Ms Royal confirmed
   rumours that have circulated for some time: she and Mr Hollande have
   separated. "I suggested to François that he should live his life
   separately, and he accepted," she told French radio. "We no longer
   live together." As recently as March, she had written that "yes, we
   are still together and yes, we still live together." Was it all a
   charade? Not at all, she insists: she put her troubles to one side
   during the campaign, to protect the pair's four children.

   The French are torn about the new confessional tendencies of their
   political leaders. Despite the creeping invasion of American-style
   celebrity politics, the media no longer discuss President Nicolas
   Sarkozy's relationship with his wife, Cécilia. This week the news of
   Ms Royal's separation occupied--uncharacteristically--the entire front
   page of Le Parisien, a mid-market daily, on a day otherwise dominated
   by the country's parliamentary elections.

   Have the French embraced what they call the peopleisation of political
   life? In a poll this week, 83% said that Ms Royal's announcement was
   not useful information but "a strictly private affair". Ms Royal's
   decision was motivated less by media pressure to come clean, as might
   have happened in tabloid-laden Britain, than by the need to clarify an
   awkward dynamic at the heart of the Socialist Party--in particular her
   desire to take the top job from Mr Hollande.

   Mr Hollande says he will step down as Socialist leader in 2008. Ms
   Royal plans to stand for the post. Amid the recrimination after her
   presidential defeat, the Socialist Party was growing impatient. "I've
   had enough of political life turning around the life of a couple,"
   said Manuel Valls, a rising star in the party. With the news of the
   pair's split, the air has cleared for the succession battle, and
   private lives are safe again--at least for now. A German media group,
   Axel Springer, has announced that it will launch a French version of
   Bild, its German tabloid, by the end of the year.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=38299153?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=10472229
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?
   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=54530851?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=10488541
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?
   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=41079620?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=8700316
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   Romano Prodi's centre-left coalition is back in office, but its
   chances of lasting for long are not great

   BY THE time the Senate, parliament's upper house, voted on the future
   of Romano Prodi's government on February 28th, he seemed like a figure
   from a computer game, pressing on relentlessly although blown up and
   with the way ahead strewn with traps and ambushes. In the event his
   centre-left government survived by 162 votes to 157, giving it two
   more votes than the 160 it needed. But few Italians (barely a fifth,
   said a poll in Corriere della Sera) expect it to see out its five-year
   term.

   The government was plunged into crisis when it failed to muster an
   outright majority in the Senate for its foreign policy. Mr Prodi duly
   resigned, but after consultations with political leaders President
   Giorgio Napolitano sent him back to parliament to seek endorsements
   from both chambers. The Senate is the one that matters: in the lower
   house, the government has a comfortable majority.

   To onlookers, the whole exercise may seem futile: just another example
   of the histrionic politicking that distracts Italy's leaders and helps
   to explain why the country finds it so difficult to reform. The
   episode had real effects, even so.

   Most obviously, it shattered Mr Prodi's blithe optimism that he could
   survive indefinitely without a proper working majority in the upper
   house. After the defection last September of one centre-left senator,
   he had the same number of elected senators in the upper house as the
   opposition leader, Silvio Berlusconi. He could pass legislation thanks
   only to the leftish sympathies of most of Italy's seven (unelected)
   life senators. Sooner or later, he was bound to be tripped up on an
   issue of conscience.

   In fact it was two senators from the radical left who mutinied over
   Italy's military presence in Afghanistan; two life senators
   unexpectedly abstained. One was a veteran Christian Democratic prime
   minister, Giulio Andreotti, whose decision may have reflected Vatican
   distaste for a bill to give legal rights to unmarried couples,
   including gays.

   Another effect of the drama was to highlight the need for a new
   electoral law to replace the system of proportional representation
   that was imposed by Mr Berlusconi's government shortly before it was
   ousted in April 2006. At the time critics said the new system was
   meant to make Italy ungovernable by creating the stalemate in the
   Senate that it duly produced. This week Mr Prodi said a new electoral
   law was an "absolute priority". Domenico Siniscalco, who was briefly
   finance minister under Mr Berlusconi, thinks that Italy cannot be
   reformed without a new electoral system to weaken the blackmailing
   power of small parties. But Mr Berlusconi has said this is a "false
   problem"- and smaller parties will also resist any change.

   The brief crisis has shocked the centre-left into unity, at least for
   now. On February 22nd, leaders of the nine parties in Mr Prodi's
   coalition issued a list of 12 "non-negotiable" points. They included
   respect for Italy's international commitments and undertakings to
   press ahead with two controversial plans--a high-speed rail link with
   France and a programme of liberalisation. The list was notable for
   omitting rights for unwed couples.

   As well as pleasing Mr Andreotti, that made easier one more change:
   the defection of a centre-right senator, Marco Follini, one of two
   opposition rebels. Although a former leader of the conservative Union
   of Christian Democrats (UDC) and briefly a deputy prime minister under
   Mr Berlusconi, he had been disrupting the centre-right with his dream
   of a coalition of the centre as the only solution to Italy's problems.
   Mr Follini's departure has prompted speculation of a wider, maybe
   Vatican-inspired, move to give the government support from the UDC, or
   at least from some of its legislators.

   Mr Prodi's speech to the Senate showed that he is alive to this
   possibility. One commentator called it a "formidable example of
   Christian Democrat oratory". He managed not to make any reference to
   the law on unmarried couples. He hinted at better pensions for the
   worst-off, lower taxes for home-owners and restrictions on short-term
   employment, all policies that would please the UDC.

   Whatever else they may achieve, though, Mr Prodi's overtures to the
   right may not improve the chances of further liberalisation in Italy.
   Mr Follini himself may sympathise with the liberal cause, but lots of
   his former colleagues are diehard corporatists who, like him, get most
   of their votes from the south, where many households depend either on
   welfare or on public-sector employment.

   Besides, although an influx of conservative Christian Democrats would
   make the governing majority bigger, it would also make it more
   discordant. The UDC stretches a long way from the centre. Its members
   include Rocco Buttiglione, whose reactionary views on gays and single
   mothers cost him a seat in the European Commission in 2004.

   Even for the present centre-left coalition, the way ahead looks
   testing. It could easily split if, for example, the government
   abandons the unwed-couples bill. Parliament has yet to approve renewed
   funding for Italy's contingent in Afghanistan and as many as three
   senators could abstain on that. And the coalition might also rip
   itself apart over pensions, the next test of its ability to reform.

   Proposals leaked this week showed that the government was preparing to
   retreat from a pension reform introduced by the Berlusconi
   administration. This responded to Italy's escalating welfare bill and
   to a central problem of its economy, which is that too few older
   people are actively employed. The reform, due to take effect next
   year, would have stopped workers from retiring before the age of 60.
   The new plan will allow them to go at 58.

   Yet instead of welcoming this backsliding from reform, union leaders
   expressed outrage over another idea: to ensure that pension costs are
   not increased inexorably by rising life expectancy. A link between
   pensionable age and life expectancy was due to have been made two
   years ago in line with a law passed in 1995. One union leader has now
   proposed a general strike to stop it. Poor Italy.


   The new Polish government may find it hard to deliver on its promises

   SUSPICION and confrontation were the hallmarks of Poland's previous
   government. The new centre-right Civic Platform marks a big change.
   Attacks on the government by Law and Justice, the former ruling party
   led by Jaroslaw Kaczynski, have been met with quiet steel. Civic
   Platform's amicable negotiations with its junior partner, the
   Peasants' Party, contrast with Mr Kaczynski's suspension of three
   colleagues for advocating more open discussion in his party.

   The new prime minister, Donald Tusk, is mild-mannered but not overly
   meek. His competent cabinet includes two Poles with strong foreign
   links. Jacek Rostowski, a graduate of the London School of Economics,
   is finance minister. Radek Sikorski, an Oxford graduate who worked at
   the American Enterprise Institute before serving as defence minister
   in Mr Kaczynski's government and then defecting to Civic Platform, is
   foreign minister. The Peasants' Party leader, Waldemar Pawlak, an
   internet enthusiast, will be deputy prime minister. His party is more
   amenable than the extreme populist junior partners in Mr Kaczynski's
   coalition.

   Mr Rostowski faces the biggest challenge: keeping the economy on
   track, if it falters in 2008 after growing by 6.5% this year.
   Public-finance reform is pressing; so are wage demands by teachers and
   health-care workers, stoked by labour shortages. It may be easier for
   Mr Sikorski to patch up relations with Poland's neighbours and
   European partners, bruised by the previous government's eccentric
   diplomacy. But the new government is more dubious about America's
   planned missile-defence system.

   Meeting voters' inflated expectations on road-building, housing and
   rural development will be hard. So will dealing with the boisterously
   disruptive tactics of Law and Justice, which raised so many procedural
   objections that it forced the first post-election session of
   parliament into recess. It is now boycotting the intelligence
   committee in an argument over its composition.

   But the deepest problem may be the relationship between Mr Tusk and
   President Lech Kaczynski, twin brother of Jaroslaw. The president has
   made clear that he considers Mr Tusk a second-best choice, blaming a
   hostile media for depriving his brother of a second term. The
   constitution obliges the heads of state and government to co-operate
   closely, particularly on foreign policy and defence. It seems that the
   president is determined to use all the means at his disposal to
   promote his own vision of domestic and foreign policy.

   Poland's new government has catching up to do after the past two
   years. It will also need some luck. Its many well-wishers abroad can
   only hope it gets it.


   The Polish government realises it needs a foreign policy, but doesn't
   yet have one


   A FLURRY of interest in the outside world might not seem odd in one of
   the European Union's bigger members. But when it comes from Poland's
   president and prime minister, the twin brothers Lech and Jaroslaw
   Kaczynski, it is a pleasant surprise. The prime minister, Jaroslaw,
   visited the Netherlands and Denmark last week. Angela Merkel, the
   German chancellor, visited Poland, meeting the prime minister,
   speaking at Warsaw University and spending a day at President Lech's
   house on the Baltic coast.

   This almost counts as a love-in. Polish foreign policy has been
   introverted, incompetent and marked by hostility to Germany since the
   Kaczynskis came to power in late 2005. Ms Merkel showed the value she
   places on improving German-Polish relations by bringing her husband,
   who rarely accompanies her abroad. Her main aim was to persuade the
   Poles to drop their resistance to this weekend's Berlin declaration
   celebrating the EU's 50th birthday, and to be more open to reviving
   the EU constitution. Poland had held out for a mention of God and the
   Christian tradition, but it has given up--though it will still be
   awkward on the constitution.

   Ms Merkel seems to have persuaded the Poles that she is a sympathetic
   friend, not a revanchist and bullying neighbour. Her experience under
   totalitarian rule in communist East Germany helps. But she has also
   showed sensitivity to Polish concerns. The anti-ballistic missiles
   that America wants to base in Poland did not spoil her talks and her
   seaside stroll. The Polish president also avoided the knee-jerk issues
   of German atrocities against Poland. He made no mention of plans by a
   group of Germans deported from Poland after the war to open a museum.
   Nor did he whinge on about the planned pipeline that will pump Russian
   gas directly to Germany under the Baltic Sea.

   Closer ties with Germany are welcome, but not enough. The Polish
   government's foreign-policy woes stem largely from prejudice and
   ignorance. Not only are the Kaczynskis untravelled and monoglot; they
   distrust cosmopolitans. They have sacked or intimidated any advisers
   or colleagues who showed too much knowledge of, or interest in, the
   abroad. One result is more clashes with the EU, some unnecessary,
   others badly managed.

   The Kaczynskis are sceptical about the euro, and so of the reforms
   needed to join it. Their method of communication has annoyed the EU:
   the economics commissioner, Joaquín Almunia, recently complained that
   the Polish government simply didn't inform him of its economic policy.
   One reason is that finance ministers change with alarming frequency
   (the incumbent is the fourth in 18 months). The foreign minister is a
   close Kaczynski chum, who sees her job as relaying his views bluntly,
   not building diplomatic alliances.

   Poland's image is worsened by the antics of the League of Polish
   Families, a minority coalition partner. One of its leading lights is
   campaigning against the teaching of evolution in schools. The party
   wants to ban abortion in Europe. This week the European Court of Human
   Rights awarded a Polish woman damages of EUR25,000 ($33,250) for being
   refused an abortion that could have saved her eyesight. The party
   leader, Roman Giertych, who is education minister and deputy prime
   minister, wants to restrict what he terms the "promotion" of
   homosexuality in Polish schools. To secular liberals in the rest of
   Europe, all this makes Poland seem a bastion of medieval barbarism.

   Other issues are more substantive. The Poles are being taken to the
   European Court for building a motorway through a conservation area.
   Their insistence on sticking to the voting system agreed in the Nice
   treaty in 2001, rather than the new one in the draft EU constitution,
   grates in Brussels--and Berlin. But Poland's leaders seem to have
   realised that a country wishing to have any influence needs a
   functioning foreign policy. All they must do now is formulate one.


   The government's crude ways may be worse than the sins it seeks to
   extirpate


   THOSE who predicted that the Polish government would drop the
   dramatics and fade gracefully from view in the run-up to a general
   election next month have been proved spectacularly wrong. A
   cloak-and-dagger operation at the end of August led to the arrests of
   a former interior minister, a former chief of police and the chief
   executive of Poland's largest insurer. They were made, dramatically
   enough, by balaclava-clad special forces.

   The evidence for the arrests suggested that Janusz Kaczmarek, who
   until his dismissal as interior minister in early August was a close
   ally of President Lech Kaczynski, was involved in a leak that led to
   the failure of a sting operation by a state anti-corruption agency.
   The three men have now been released on bail, but Jaromir Netzel,
   chief executive of the PZU insurance company, has been sacked. A
   warrant has been issued for a rich businessmen, Ryszard Krauze, who is
   abroad.

   Many questions remain. One is why the former chief of police, Konrad
   Kornatowski, was detained just before he gave evidence to a
   parliamentary committee. He might yet confirm claims by Mr Kaczmarek
   that political rivals and critical journalists were illegally put
   under surveillance on the orders of the justice minister, Zbigniew
   Ziobro. Another concern is that the office of prosecutor-general is
   part of the justice portfolio. Critics say Mr Ziobro, who is close to
   the prime minister, Jaroslaw Kaczynski, is too partisan for the role.

   There are broader worries about the undermining of judicial
   independence since the Kaczynski brothers' party, Law and Justice,
   took power two years ago. They set up the state anti-corruption
   agency, whose operation to expose the dealings of a coalition partner
   has led to demands for a parliamentary investigation. Roman Giertych,
   leader of another former coalition party, accuses Law and Justice of
   employing "Soviet methods". The prime minister retorts that the
   government has been acting "like a good surgeon" cutting out "diseased
   tissue".

   The Kaczynskis may have been right to try to rid Polish public life of
   post-communist sleaze. But they have failed, so far, to come up with
   evidence for the existence of an all-encompassing network of corrupt
   businesspeople, politicians and communist spooks, the uklad, which
   they say has ruled Poland since 1989. And their methods have sometimes
   smacked more of a witch-hunt than of due process.

   The latest arrests may have had a political motive. The governor's
   insistence that protection of the rich and powerful has ended
   resonates with voters. For the first time in a year, a poll has just
   put Law and Justice ahead of the largest opposition party, the liberal
   Civic Platform. This puts the opposition in an awkward dilemma:
   whether to vote to keep a government it is eager to oust, or to back
   an early election it now risks losing.

   An early election and a change of government still look the most
   likely outcome of all this. But Law and Justice could yet ride back
   into power on a wave of populist support. Democracy in eastern Europe
   remains a learning process. But Poland's ruling party may not prove to
   have been the best of teachers.


   Why Christians feel under threat in today's Turkey

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

   THIS has been a bad year for Orhan Picaklar. As a Protestant
   missionary in Samsun, on the Black Sea, he has had death threats and
   his church has been repeatedly stoned. Local newspapers called him a
   foreign agent. A group of youths tried to kidnap him as he was driving
   home. His pleas for police protection have gone unheeded.

   Mr Picaklar is not alone. All over Turkey, Christians are under
   attack. In January Hrant Dink, an ethnic Armenian newspaper editor,
   was shot dead in Istanbul by a teenager who said he had "insulted
   Turkishness". In April two Turks and a German, all evangelists, were
   murdered in Malatya. Their killers bound and tortured them before
   slitting their throats. In December an Italian Catholic priest was
   knifed by a teenager in Izmir. Another Italian priest was shot dead in
   Trabzon in 2006.

   Many blame the attacks on a new ultra-nationalism, tinged with Islamic
   militancy, that has swept across Turkey. Unemployed teenagers in the
   Black Sea region seem especially prone to it. "The plight of
   Christians is critical," says Husnu Ondul, president of the
   Ankara-based Turkish Human Rights Association. Like many others, he
   believes that the "deep state", comprising a few judges, army officers
   and security officials who need enemies to justify their grip on
   power, is behind the attacks.

   That may seem far-fetched. Yet evidence leaked to the media in the
   Dink and Malatya cases points to collusion between the perpetrators
   and rogue elements in the police and the army. It also suggests that
   the Istanbul police were tipped off about Mr Dink's murder a year
   before it was carried out. "So why did the Istanbul police do nothing
   to prevent it?" wonders Ergin Cinmen, a lawyer for the Dink family.

   Respecting the religious freedom of non-Muslims is essential to
   Turkey's hopes of joining the European Union. Laws against Christians
   repairing their churches have been relaxed. Overriding objections from
   pious constituents, the ruling Justice and Development (AK) party has
   just restored an ancient Armenian church in eastern Turkey. School
   textbooks are being purged of an anti-Western bias.

   Yet many Christian grievances remain. The prime minister, Recep Tayyip
   Erdogan, resists calls to reopen the Greek Orthodox Halki seminary on
   Heybeli island off Istanbul, shut down in 1971. Turkey refuses to
   recognise the ecumenical title of the Greek Orthodox patriarch,
   Bartholomew I, the spiritual leader of over 200m Orthodox Christians.
   The patriarch, a loyal Turkish citizen, has lobbied hard for Turkey's
   EU membership. But this has only reinforced suspicions among
   ultra-nationalist detractors, who accuse him of trying to
   "Christianise" Turkey and wanting a Vatican-style state in the heart
   of Istanbul.

   Never mind that the Greek Orthodox church in Istanbul has dwindled to
   4,000 souls, many of them too old to follow their children abroad. Nor
   that the patriarch must under Turkish law be a Turkish citizen, a rule
   which is making it difficult to find a successor to Bartholomew I.
   "They [ie, the Turks] apparently won't regard the conquest of
   Constantinople as complete until the patriarchate ceases to exist and
   all Christians have been frightened away," suggests one restorer of
   icons in Istanbul.

   The government has yet to approve a draft bill to help non-Muslims
   recover thousands of properties that have been confiscated by the
   state and either sold or left to decay. The Aya Yorgi church in
   Istanbul's Edirnekapi district, which was badly damaged in an
   earthquake, is one sad example. Its walls are cracked, its roof is
   leaking; a marble angel lies in pieces on the floor. "All we ask is to
   be permitted to rescue our church, but we cannot hammer a single
   nail," complains Bishop Dionysios, a Greek Orthodox prelate who still
   conducts services there.

   Many Christians concede that AK has treated them better than its
   secular predecessors did. They blame the deep state for their recent
   troubles. But the excuse of the deep state's power is wearing thin
   after AK's big victory in July's general election. "With such a strong
   mandate, the government's failure to meet our demands can only mean
   one thing, that the deep state is still in charge," says a Christian
   priest. Or perhaps that AK believes in religious freedom for Muslims,
   but not Christians.




   The grand coalition's junior partner, the Social Democrats, improve
   their prospects--at the expense of the government's


   KURT BECK has been chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SPD), the
   junior partner in Germany's grand coalition government, since May
   2006. But only now has the party crowned him. Colleagues asked if his
   homespun ways and rustic accent befitted the leader of Germany's
   oldest political party. The SPD's modernising ministers paid him
   little heed. Yet at the party convention in Hamburg between October
   26th and 28th, over 95% of delegates voted to re-elect him. Newspapers
   dubbed him "King Kurt".

   Mr Beck has won the accolade by pulling the SPD out of a tailspin. As
   the party responsible for the unpopular Agenda 2010 reforms of
   Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, and now as part of a coalition with the
   Christian Democratic Union (CDU), which portrays compassionate social
   policies as its own, the SPD has been haemorrhaging members and votes
   for years. Mr Beck has given it a glimpse of redemption by proposing
   to pay unemployment benefits to older workers for a longer period, a
   partial rollback of Agenda 2010. Delegates cheered this rediscovery of
   the party's roots; sceptics held their tongues.

   The party's new friskiness promises to make life uncomfortable for
   Angela Merkel, the CDU chancellor. Getting ahead of Mr Beck, the SPD
   has booby-trapped the planned privatisation of the federal railway,
   Deutsche Bahn, endorsed a speed limit on motorways and (with his
   blessing, this time) called for a minimum wage. Its leaders, having
   made up with each other, are warming up for the federal election in
   2009 by laying into Ms Merkel. Her response will be to try to preserve
   her popularity but fend off pressure for policies she sees as
   economically senseless. This is not a recipe for progress with reform.

   On unemployment benefits she is likely to offer conditional surrender.
   Mr Beck's proposal--to extend the payment period from 12 months to 15
   for jobless people over 45 and to 24 months for those over 50--is
   popular. Tax revenues are buoyant, so the government cannot plead
   poverty. Moreover, the CDU has already endorsed a version of the same
   policy. Ms Merkel wants to contain its cost, which could reach EUR2.9
   billion ($4.2 billion), says the Federal Labour Agency (the SPD
   insists it will cost far less). More money for welfare means less for
   investment and tax cuts, or a smaller financial cushion to soften the
   effects of a slowing economy.

   However it is financed, the government will be weakening one of the
   pillars of Mr Schröder's Agenda 2010 reforms, enacted in 2003-05.
   Offering extended unemployment benefits to older workers discourages
   them from seeking work and promotes early retirement, notes Klaus
   Deutsch of DB Research, part of Deutsche Bank. With the shortening of
   the payment period under Agenda 2010, joblessness has fallen by more
   than average among older workers during the economic upswing. That may
   now change.

   In some other areas, the SPD's new assertiveness may produce gridlock,
   not retreat. Deutsche Bahn, which faces a liberalised European market,
   may not issue voting shares to outside investors, the party has
   decided. That could be fatal to its privatisation. The CDU is likely
   to block an economy-wide minimum wage, which would destroy jobs. What
   does not get through is likely to become the stuff of the 2009
   election campaign.

   Is there any point, people may start to wonder, in prolonging the
   grand coalition until then? The odds are that the partners will say
   yes, for reasons of both policy and politics. The common ground
   between the two parties has shrunk, but it has not quite disappeared.
   There is still room to stimulate employment by cutting payroll taxes,
   one of the CDU's pet projects. The coalition may find a formula for
   reforming the inheritance tax. It is working on a second phase of
   federal reform, limiting states' debts and giving them more
   tax-raising powers. Both big parties have made energy efficiency a
   priority.

   The SPD indulged its political appetites in Hamburg; now its ministers
   will return to the hard grind of governance, predicts Richard Stöss, a
   political scientist at Berlin's Free University. Germans approve of
   grand coalitions, however uncomfortable they are for the politicians
   involved. Whoever pulls the plug prematurely risks being punished by
   the voters, Mr Stöss argues. There is "no question" that the coalition
   will survive until 2009, insists Niels Annen, a member of the SPD's
   left wing.

   But from now onwards the partners' preoccupation will be to seduce as
   broad a swathe of the electorate as they can, which means reaching out
   to the middle as well as cultivating their bases. The notion that the
   SPD has lurched to the left is "outrageous nonsense", says Mr Beck.
   Yes, the party's newly minted basic programme reaffirms democratic
   socialism, but it also endorses "sustainability", of the financial as
   well as the ecological sort. Although the SPD may still want to tweak
   the Agenda 2010 reforms, the basic carrot-and-stick principle behind
   them has not been abandoned, the party insists.

   For now, though, the middle belongs to Ms Merkel. Her approval rating
   is close to 70%. The record of grand coalitions at state level
   suggests that political credit for whatever they achieve goes mainly
   to their senior partners. To oust Ms Merkel from the chancellorship in
   the next election, the SPD would have to win almost 40% of the vote.
   Despite the Beck revival, it is still far from achieving that.

   The main risk to Ms Merkel is that she could lapse into irrelevance.
   Until now she has prospered by showing strength in foreign policy and
   deftness in managing the coalition's internal divisions. If they now
   start to paralyse the government, or drive it in the direction set by
   the SPD, she will lose her image as a leader capable of rising above
   political adversity. "She has to be with the people, but not with the
   SPD," says Wolfgang Nowak of the Alfred Herrhausen Society, a group
   linked to Deutsche Bank. The best opportunity to strike back at its
   rejuvenated rival may come next month, when the CDU holds its own
   convention in Hanover.


   Sweden's decision to apply to join the European Union came not during
   Carl Bildt's 1991-94 government , as we said last week ("[3]Back on
   the block"), but during the previous administration. Sorry.


   The election campaign in Turkey begins in a febrile atmosphere


   UNTIL a few weeks ago, Mehmet Simsek, a British-educated economist,
   earned a six-figure salary as a banker in London. But he has dropped
   all that to run as a parliamentary candidate for the ruling AK Party
   in Gaziantep, which borders Syria. He is standing "because I want to
   serve my country," he says.

   Born into grinding poverty in Batman, a mainly Kurdish town, Mr Simsek
   did not speak Turkish until he was six. Yet he then clawed his way to
   success. He is the poster boy of the 150 new candidates whom the prime
   minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is fielding in the July 22nd election.
   His presence thins out the religious firebrands within the mildly
   Islamist AK ranks.

   Turkey's meddlesome generals are not impressed. Having hinted at a
   possible coup in late April, they remain eager to stop Mr Erdogan
   returning to power alone. Indeed, in some ways, the contest is now
   between AK and the army. "The military hates AK, and that's the
   foundation of everything," says one Western diplomat. But opinion
   polls suggest that Mr Erdogan's party may do better than the 34% it
   took in the 2002 election.

   The secularist opposition is fragmented. A planned merger of the
   conservative True Path Party with the centre-right Motherland Party
   collapsed amid bickering over numbers of candidates from each side. A
   survey commissioned by AK suggests that the main secularist CHP
   opposition party may get 22%; and the ultra-nationalist MHP, 11%.

   At least 30 candidates from the pro-Kurdish DTP are also expected to
   win seats; the Kurds have fielded 40 independents to get round the
   minimum 10% threshold for parties to have parliamentary
   representation. No other party is likely to get in, so AK might well
   be able again to form a government alone, says a top party official.
   "That is, if the elections take place at all," he adds gloomily.

   Yet Armagan Kuloglu, a retired air-force general, insists that, as
   long as AK picks a "reasonable" presidential candidate (meaning one
   whose wife does not wear an Islamic headscarf) to replace Ahmet Necdet
   Sezer, things will return to normal. It was Mr Erdogan's nomination of
   his foreign minister, Abdullah Gul (whose wife wears the headscarf) to
   succeed Mr Sezer that prompted the generals' threat to intervene on
   April 27th. A defiant AK responded by ramming through a law to allow a
   direct election of the president. This law was quashed by Mr Sezer.
   Few believe it will get past the constitutional court, which
   extraordinarily ruled invalid parliament's attempt to elect Mr Gul.

   Some even fear that the court may now be tempted to launch proceedings
   to ban AK on the grounds that it is steering Turkey towards religious
   rule. For the time being, though, the opposition's strategy is to play
   on mounting public fury in the face of stepped-up PKK rebel attacks
   that have claimed the lives of dozens of Turkish soldiers in recent
   months.

   On June 8th the army exhorted the Turkish public to exert its "popular
   reflexes" to counter terrorist threats. The call posted on the general
   staff website was seen by some as an invitation to attack the Kurds.
   This forced the generals to explain that they wanted the national
   resolve to be expressed through strictly peaceful means.

   Meanwhile, Mr Erdogan is resisting pressure to order a cross-border
   operation against PKK bases in northern Iraq. This has enabled his
   critics to portray him as an American stooge. Crowds at the recent
   spate of funerals of Turkish soldiers killed in battle have taken to
   booing Mr Erdogan and any cabinet members who dare to show up. Mr
   Simsek may soon be yearning for his cushy London life again.


   The cure for ex-communist sleaze in Poland may be worse than the
   disease


   SLEAZE was endemic among the ex-communists who ran Poland until 2005,
   say the moral zealots now in charge. They have backing from a
   surprising source: Jozef Oleksy, an ex-communist who was, in the
   1990s, prime minister, interior minister and parliamentary speaker. A
   leaked recording of his boozy three-hour lunch with one of Poland's
   richest businessmen, Aleksander Gudzowaty, contains detailed
   allegations about top ex-communists' financial shenanigans.

   All those mentioned deny everything. Aleksander Kwasniewski, president
   between 1995 and 2005 and still the left's most popular politician,
   calls Mr Oleksy an "utter cretin" and "traitor". Mr Oleksy has
   grovelled in vain to his former colleagues, complaining that the tapes
   were doctored in the hope of sowing dissension on the left and of
   scuppering Mr Kwasniewski's return to domestic politics.

   Recorded by Mr Gudzowaty's security staff, the tapes seem to have
   reached the media via the justice ministry and the security services.
   Mr Gudzowaty, Poland's fifth-richest man, has not explained how they
   got out. Some think he is currying favour with the powers-that-be: Law
   and Justice, the centre-right party founded by Lech Kaczynski
   (president) and his twin brother Jaroslaw (prime minister).

   The Kaczynskis loathe this sort of thing. They like to stand above all
   for clean government. Their own probity is unquestioned. But their
   record is tainted, not least by the antics of two coalition allies.
   One of these is a bunch of farmers with dodgy business ties; the other
   is a bunch of homophobes who flirt with anti-Semitism.

   Worse, the government has created a paranoid atmosphere, in which
   secret material is close to becoming a political currency. Government
   critics complain of being bugged: hard to prove, but a fear rarely
   expressed since the collapse of communism. The justice ministry seems
   heavy-handed and too fond of publicity. Some say it is being misused
   for political ends.

   The Kaczynskis want to drive the old regime's cronies out of their
   powerful jobs. But they have often brought in their own chums, rather
   than apolitical experts. In a tussle over the sale of Poland's largest
   insurer, they replaced the firm's boss with a candidate who lacks the
   usual qualifications. The head of the country's largest oil company
   has been replaced by an inexperienced friend of the president's.

   The biggest row is about the government's "lustration" law, which
   beefs up the vetting of anybody who ever co-operated with the
   communist-era secret services. The aim is to uproot the uklad, a
   supposed network of communist-era spies and their allies in business
   and the public services that the Kaczynskis blame for all of Poland's
   wrong turnings since 1989.

   Screening public figures for connections to the old regime is common
   in eastern Europe, but the new law has unparalleled scope. Leading
   academics and journalists have threatened civil disobedience. The
   institute that looks after the secret-service archives is concerned
   that it will be unable to certify the purity of as many as 700,000
   people within the time limit stipulated by the law.

   Critics say that screening laws, however well-meant, tend to hit
   collaborators--perhaps coerced at the time and remorseful now--more
   than perpetrators. Heavy vetting is a cumbersome way of dealing with
   the uklad. A better one would be to make the economy more open, so
   that connections ceased to matter. Jan Winiecki, a professor and
   critic of communist economics, calls the law "unacceptable on both
   moral and legal grounds" and says it "puts its authors beyond the pale
   of Western civilisation". The final version proposed by the president
   is vague, lacking a clear definition of collaboration.

   If the publication of the tapes was a bid to destroy the
   ex-communists' party, it has backfired. Wojciech Olejniczak, the
   party's 32-year-old leader, has strengthened his position against the
   old guard after Mr Oleksy's remarks. Polls show that Mr Kwasniewski
   remains popular. The Kaczynskis are creating monstrous difficulties
   for small fry. But they are not catching big fish, such as the tycoons
   who have prospered so mysteriously in recent years.


   A brave tale of journalists who sacked their editor

                                                    Editors in danger too

   IF THE editor mangles this article, his correspondent can do little
   but fume. That would not be true at Der Spiegel ("The Mirror"),
   Germany's leading newsweekly, where the staff are in control. They
   have just abruptly dethroned their long-serving editor, Stefan Aust.

   Mr Aust had made Spiegel shine. He was hired in 1994 to strike back
   against Focus, a colourful upstart, which he managed by livening up
   the magazine's appearance, grooming its prose and publishing more
   provocative covers. Spiegel now leads the newsweekly pack, selling 1m
   copies and having lost fewer readers than either Focus or Stern.
   Spiegel television, which Mr Aust once ran, is thriving; the Spiegel
   [3]website (which is not his patch) has crushed all rivals. The
   magazine has lost political clout, but it still reaches the elite,
   says Henning Kornfeld of the Kress Report, which studies the media.
   Financially, 2007 was the Spiegel group's best year ever.

   Founded in 1947, even before the Federal Republic of Germany's
   official birth, Der Spiegel made its name by tormenting the Adenauer
   government, promoting dialogue with the communist east and dredging up
   scandals. In 1950 the Bundestag even convened a special committee to
   deal with its allegations that parliamentarians were bribed to choose
   Bonn as Germany's capital. Rudolf Augstein, the founding editor, gave
   Spiegel's staff half the company's shares in 1974.

   Mr Aust's detractors think he has betrayed the Augstein legacy. To
   fight off Focus, they say, he made Spiegel less political and more
   superficial. Rather than crusading from the left, Spiegel launched
   tirades from the right, especially against the Social Democrat-led
   government of Gerhard Schröder in 1998-2005. "The fish rots from the
   head," complained Augstein's daughter, Franziska, in 2005. Worse, Mr
   Aust was rude to his staff. They have retaliated by ending his tenure
   early, in 2008 rather than 2010. One insider sees this as a last spasm
   of rebellion by ageing "'68ers".

   With Mr Aust gone, Spiegel can mesh its print and online personalities
   and launch more products bearing its brand, believe his executioners,
   who were joined by the publisher, Gruner+Jahr, owner of a 25% stake.
   But will any forceful personality be ready to put himself at the mercy
   of colleagues who have just turfed out an editor as successful as Mr
   Aust? The answer may become clear only when a new editor is picked,
   perhaps later this month.


   The installation of a warlord as Chechnya's president reflects a wider
   trend as Russia braces for next year's presidential election

                                                          Alex Williamson

                              Alex Williamson


   ALU ALKHANOV is unusual among ex-presidents of Chechnya, be they
   secessionists or Kremlin puppets: he is alive. Last week he was
   peacefully relieved of his responsibilities by Vladimir Putin, who
   appointed as acting president the 30-year-old Ramzan Kadyrov, a
   volatile former rebel warlord who is the son of another (deceased)
   Chechen leader.

   Chechnya's fate and Mr Putin's have long been intertwined. He rose to
   power on the back of the Chechen war launched in 1999. Mr Kadyrov's
   elevation (to be rubber-stamped by the Chechen parliament) is designed
   to ensure Chechnya's stability in the nervous run-up to Mr Putin's
   putative departure from office in 2008. It formalises the de facto
   power that, with his feared militia, Mr Kadyrov has long wielded
   anyway. But it also reflects, as Chechnya tends to, the wider
   political situation in Russia. It is part of what Vladimir Ryzhkov, an
   independent member of the lower house of parliament, the Duma,
   describes as a political zachistka (purge): a word mainly used to
   describe bloody Russian raids on Chechen villages.

   The raids on Russia's constitution are incremental but no less
   insidious. The 5% threshold to win seats in the Duma, already set high
   enough to keep out all the liberal parties at the 2003 election, will
   be raised to 7% for the parliamentary poll later this year. Parties
   are barred from forming coalitions to get over it. Candidates may come
   only from party lists; in the previous system half were directly
   elected by district (that enabled Mr Ryzhkov, for example, to
   survive). Candidates can be debarred for "extremism"; that includes
   slandering a public official. Minimum turnout rules have also been
   scrapped, as has the option of voting "against all". So boycotts and
   protest votes can no longer be used to register dissent.

   Dirty tricks are common. Halls booked for opposition party meetings
   become suddenly unavailable. Rallies and protest marches are easily
   banned, and smothered by riot police when they are not.

   "All our actions", Mr Putin said recently in Munich, "are designed to
   strengthen a multi-party system in Russia." Quite so. Along with
   United Russia, the blindly loyal majority block, the next Duma will
   most likely have a Communist rump and the Liberal Democrats: a largely
   comical faux-nationalist outfit also loyal to the Kremlin. The main
   "opposition" party may be a new one called A Just Russia, created by
   the Kremlin last year to appeal to left-wing and nationalist voters.
   The result, says Grigory Yavlinsky of Yabloko, a fading liberal party,
   is the "illusion of competition", rather like that between rival
   boyars in tsarist times. Mr Ryzhkov, whose Republican Party is also
   stymied by election rules, calls it the "Dresden system", a reference
   to East Germany's bogus multiparty system, which Mr Putin doubtless
   recalls from his spying days in Dresden.

   There are other obstacles for the outsiders. After the example made of
   Mikhail Khodorkovsky, a former oil tycoon now facing fresh criminal
   charges from his Siberian prison, businessmen are disinclined to fund
   Mr Putin's critics. Meanwhile, the Kremlin's grip on the media ensures
   such voices are rarely heard.

   Some small-scale independence survives. Take Novoye Vremya (The New
   Times) a new magazine whose boss was sacked from a big daily paper for
   his too-frank coverage of the Beslan school siege in 2004. Yevgenia
   Albats, its political editor, blames the tameness of much of the print
   media on self-censorship and ambition. "If you want to be part of the
   establishment," she says "you cannot write the truth." Outside Moscow
   journalists face graver perils: this week, in the North Caucasus town
   of Vladikavkaz, the office of IWPR, a brave London-based journalism
   network, was raided by the police. Yet there are signs of life too:
   Victor Fedofenko quit his paper in the Siberian town of
   Khanty-Mansiysk, after its owner vetoed an article on embezzlement. He
   and his colleagues started a new one, with a picture of Che Guevara on
   its first front page, because, says Mr Fedofenko, "We associate him
   with freedom."

   But television--from which most Russians get their news--is another
   story, as even Kremlin officials admit. Political news is dominated by
   flattering coverage of Mr Putin's day. All the main channels are in
   effect controlled by the Kremlin. The general trend, says Masha Lipman
   of the Carnegie Moscow Centre, is to safe, non-political subjects.

   Mr Putin and his aides argue that similar approaches can be found in
   Western countries. But cumulatively they represent a concerted erosion
   of democratic freedoms. Some measures, such as onerous new
   registration rules for campaigning groups, have not yet resulted in
   the draconian clampdowns some predicted. But they create anxiety and
   instil obedience simply by existing. So does the re-emergence of
   Soviet-style checkups on those citizens having too close contact with
   foreigners and other undesirables.

   The mystery is why, popular as he is, Mr Putin bothers with all these
   superfluous instruments of control. Part of the answer is: because he
   can. But another part is that his worry is probably not defeat in
   stage-managed elections, but rather unrest on the streets (hence the
   creation of a pro-Kremlin youth movement). That, plus infighting or
   palace coups inside the Kremlin, where Russia's real political
   competition takes place.

   The need to maintain a balance between rival Kremlin clans seems to
   explain Mr Putin's other main personnel move last week, which was to
   shift Sergei Ivanov from the defence ministry to be a first deputy
   prime minister. That rank is also held by Dmitry Medvedev, who like Mr
   Ivanov is considered a frontrunner to succeed Mr Putin in 2008. That
   may free Mr Ivanov from the tarnish of perpetual scandals over
   brutality in the army (one recent allegation is that soldiers in St
   Petersburg were forced into prostitution). Some now speculate that the
   2008 presidential contest will be between two approved candidates. But
   the main benefit of the change is to Mr Putin, who has reasserted his
   grip on the succession process and shored up his power.

   That is another way in which Chechnya reflects, in extreme form, the
   general situation. Under Mr Kadyrov in Chechnya, as under Mr Putin in
   all Russia, economic improvements have come at a cost of corruption,
   opacity and lawlessness. Both regimes rest on highly personalised rule
   that looks secure but may yet prove unstable.


                                                            Peter Schrank

                               Peter Schrank

   Why nobody was happy with the summit deal on a new European Union
   treaty


   EVERYBODY always claims victory after European Union summits. Often,
   this is a transparent fib. But this time, pretty much all those who
   attended the summit in Brussels walked away with what they wanted (or
   at least what they said they wanted). That should have made them
   happy, but didn't. Instead the meeting, intended to draft a
   replacement for the ill-fated EU constitution, was a strikingly
   bad-tempered affair. ("Deeply disagreeable", shuddered one veteran
   diplomat.)

   There are several explanations for this sourness. But the most
   interesting may be that, although each of three competing camps came
   away from the summit declaring that they had won, their victories
   exposed how differently the 27 EU members now see their relationship
   with Europe.

   The first and biggest camp took in the 22 countries that arrived
   hoping to resurrect the constitution two years after it was stopped by
   No votes in France and the Netherlands. In broad terms, they
   succeeded. They had to chop the defunct constitution up and rename its
   most contentious elements, like a planned "foreign minister". But in
   the relieved words of the Irish prime minister, Bertie Ahern, "90% of
   it is still there."

   The second camp had a single country: Poland. The twin Kaczynski
   brothers who are Polish president and prime minister fought hard (at
   one point even arguing that Poland should be treated as a bigger
   country, because so many Poles died in the second world war). They
   made few friends, but won one huge concession. The Germans, hosting
   the summit as holder of the EU's rotating presidency, agreed to
   preserve for another decade the existing voting rules, which favour
   Poland and underweight Germany. This gift secured the German
   chancellor, Angela Merkel, the successful outcome that she wanted. But
   it left German officials "as miserable as hell", says one witness.

   Conventional wisdom in Brussels holds that Poland will "pay" for its
   behaviour in a future budget round. That is implausible: the EU is
   incapable of being vengeful with such precision. More perilous for
   Poland is the risk of being deemed unserious. Pushing hard for
   national interests is accepted practice in Brussels. But countries
   that repeatedly flout the rules, issue empty threats or take Europe
   for granted end up losing influence: ask Italy, Greece or Cyprus.
   Tellingly, EU leaders coldly swatted aside a Polish request for laws
   on "public morality" to be exempted from the charter of fundamental
   rights. Given the Poles' record of populist social conservatism, it
   was feared that an exemption would lead to "gays being tarred and
   feathered" on the streets of Warsaw, says one diplomat, exaggerating
   only slightly.

   The third camp, comprising naysayers to the constitution, needed
   visible changes to the text, either because their voters had rejected
   it (the Dutch and French) or because they probably would have done if
   asked (the British and Czechs). France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy,
   became a sort of co-host of the summit, working with Ms Merkel to win
   others round to his vision of a boiled-down, simplified treaty. But Mr
   Sarkozy exacted a price for his help. Whereas Ms Merkel toiled away in
   the shadows, Mr Sarkozy invited press photographers to see him meet a
   string of leaders, then went for a jog wearing mirror-finish
   sunglasses and a black T-shirt with the badge of France's toughest
   police commando unit. Flexing his muscles, Mr Sarkozy persuaded Ms
   Merkel to drop a phrase about "free and undistorted competition" from
   a list of the EU's core objectives. Officials explained that this was
   a political move with no legal consequences, but the signal it sent is
   still worrying (see [4]article).

   Britain claimed victory on all four "red lines" brought to the summit
   by Tony Blair, in almost his last act as prime minister. These
   included the right to stand aloof from European police and judicial
   co-operation, and a (perhaps not watertight) opt-out from any risk
   that the charter of fundamental rights might threaten British labour
   laws. Critics at home accused Mr Blair of choosing only winnable
   battles that were easy for voters to understand but making no effort
   to fight the loss of scores of national vetoes (one tabloid accused
   him of "abject surrender").

   The Eurosceptic tide

   To attack Mr Blair is to miss the target, however. Those in Britain
   who hate the new treaty do not really have a problem with the ex-prime
   minister, but rather with the rest of Europe. For sweeping curbs on
   national vetoes in the name of a more efficient EU were backed by 26
   of the 27 countries.

   Indeed, most other governments thought Mr Blair had secured an
   "outrageous" deal (to use one of the more printable terms), given that
   he signed up to the full constitution only three years ago. There was
   special bafflement that Mr Blair insisted that he could have lived
   with the constitution, even when he was acting as if to recover from
   some dreadful mistake. The explanation is that other countries were
   focusing on the wrong mistake. Mr Blair does not really regret signing
   the constitution. But he is working to recover from the tactical
   blunder of offering a referendum on it.

   Mr Blair got away with his demands only because other leaders can
   easily guess the result of any British referendum. For similar
   reasons, each of the naysayers was rewarded with small changes in the
   text, leaving it an incomprehensible mess of footnotes and protocols.
   This caused mounting fury among those who liked the constitution
   (Belgium's soon-to-depart prime minister threw the loudest tantrum,
   shouting at the Dutch that they were "hollowing out" the European
   project).

   Such peevishness was irrational, in one sense: Belgium wanted the
   constitution and got a text pretty much like it, albeit spattered in
   footnotes. But the same footnotes are evidence of Europe's divisions.
   For anyone whose dream is still some ideal of European unity, the mere
   fact that each competing camp won at this summit was, of itself, a
   defeat.


   The election in September is necessary but may not be sufficient to
   clear up Ukraine's messy politics 

   "SORRY we are closed: everybody has gone to the barricades," read the
   note pinned to the door of a travel agency in Lvov, western Ukraine,
   in November 2004. Irina Mala, the manager and part-owner, remembers
   how she gathered warm clothes for her husband and sent him off to
   Kiev, "not knowing whether he would ever come back". For several days
   she clung to the television news, watching people like her husband
   make history in Kiev's Independence Square. "For the first time in my
   life, I felt proud for Ukraine."

   The euphoria of the "orange revolution" is long gone. In the past six
   months, Ms Mala has not even watched the news or read newspapers. The
   power struggle that ensued when Viktor Yushchenko won the presidency
   in December 2004 after weeks of popular protests made her first angry,
   then disappointed and now indifferent. Ms Mala may not even vote in
   the general election on September 30th. "We can't explain to our
   children what is going on," she says. The charges and counter-charges
   are mind-boggling, the nexus between business and politics that Mr
   Yushchenko pledged to break as strong as ever and the switching of
   political sides is like a comic opera, not a revolutionary drama.

   The plot, so far, goes like this. Mr Yushchenko came to power on a
   promise to clean up Ukrainian politics. His defeated rival, Viktor
   Yanukovich, was disgraced because, as prime minister, he had blatantly
   tried to rig the presidential election. Yulia Tymoshenko, a firebrand
   politician in the orange revolution, became Mr Yushchenko's first
   prime minister. But within months, the orange coalition descended into
   turmoil. Ms Tymoshenko's threats to reopen privatisation deals and her
   price caps on fuel and other commodities damaged the economy. Fierce
   internal rows, plus a swathe of corruption scandals, led to the
   dismissal of the government.

   It was thus not a surprise that Mr Yanukovich's Party of the Regions
   took the biggest share of the vote in the parliamentary election in
   early 2006. After more months of infighting on the orange side, Mr
   Yanukovich bounced back as prime minister. Under a compromise in the
   orange revolution, many presidential powers had been transferred to
   parliament. Once he was in the driving seat, Mr Yanukovich began to
   encroach even more.

   According to Mr Yushchenko, the Party of the Regions bribed and
   pressured opposition members of parliament to switch sides so as to
   gain an illegitimately big majority that would let Mr Yanukovich
   change the constitution. Mr Yushchenko accuses the party of trying to
   alter the result of the election and insists that the right response
   was to call a new election. His opponents say this was an illegal
   move. Both sides have cited the constitution (full of loopholes) and
   appealed to the courts (notoriously corrupt). The stand-off almost
   ended violently, but both Viktors have pulled back and agreed to a
   fresh parliamentary election on September 30th.

   Enter Oleksandr Moroz, a renegade socialist and speaker of the
   parliament who is still trying to unravel the deal. Mr Moroz's party
   was once part of the orange coalition. But he betrayed his voters and
   his political allies by joining Mr Yanukovich's camp. The September
   election threatens to get rid of him and his party.

   Few ordinary Ukrainians care about the politicians' squabbling, partly
   because they are used to a state of political crisis and partly
   because they can afford to be bored. After a brief dip under Ms
   Tymoshenko, the economy is doing well, with GDP growing by over 7% a
   year, and incomes are rising. The sharp hike in gas prices charged by
   the Russians has trimmed the pre-2005 double-digit growth, but has
   also led to greater energy efficiency. "The increase in gas prices has
   been very helpful," insists Viktor Pinchuk, a steel magnate who has
   invested $600m in modernising his plant.

   Ukraine's political crisis has had little economic impact. Indeed, one
   reason the economy is doing well, say some, is that politicians are
   too busy fighting each other to meddle. There is also a consensus on
   policy. "Neither Yushchenko nor Yanukovich want to review the results
   of the privatisations, nor build state capitalism," says Oleksandr
   Paskhaver, a former economic adviser to Mr Yushchenko.

   There are, indeed, few ideological divides between the main parties.
   Short-hand labels of Mr Yushchenko as pro-Western and Mr Yanukovich as
   pro-Russian are misleading. "Both politicians are pro-Ukrainian," says
   Petro Oliynyk, governor of Lvov. Both Mr Yanukovich and Mr Yushchenko
   want Ukraine to integrate with Europe, to join the World Trade
   Organisation and to stay friendly with Russia. Mr Yanukovich no longer
   flies to Moscow for advice: these days he is coached by American
   spin-doctors.

   To be sure, there are deep cultural, historical and economic
   differences between the east and the south of Ukraine, which supports
   Mr Yanukovich, and the pro-Yushchenko west (with Ms Tymoshenko's
   support coming from the middle). Only 38% of western Ukrainians have
   been to the east of the country and 35% of easterners to the west,
   says one poll. The east, part of the Russian empire for centuries, is
   largely Orthodox and Russian-speaking. Donetsk, Mr Yanukovich's
   hometown, was the industrial heartland of the Soviet Union. By
   contrast western Ukraine was ruled, as Galicia, first by Poland and
   then by Austria-Hungary, joining the Soviet Union only in 1945. It is
   partly Catholic and mostly Ukrainian-speaking.

   Yet these differences between east and west, exploited by politicians
   on both sides, have not turned into separatism or even hatred. One
   thing all parts of the country agree on is that they want a united,
   independent Ukraine. For all the talk of a pro-Russian mood in the
   east, none of the Russian oligarchs has been allowed to gain control
   of its industrial assets. "Yanukovich is an excellent manager and he
   knows full well that economically the east needs Europe more than the
   west of Ukraine," says Alexander Krivoruchko, a businessman in
   Donetsk.

   The real differences between Mr Yanukovich and Mr Yushchenko lie in
   their values, style of governance and the economic interests they
   stand for. Behind Mr Yanukovich lurk powerful billionaire oligarchs
   who control most of the former Soviet mines and giant steelworks in
   the east. They need markets in Europe, cheap gas from Russia and
   political connections. Mr Yanukovich's critics say that, despite an
   attempt at a makeover, he still bears the marks left by the
   criminalised post-Soviet era. To him, they claim, European integration
   is a way of gaining new markets rather than of installing democratic
   values. But Mr Yanukovich also appeals to eastern Ukrainians who see
   him as a paternal post-Soviet figure who will ensure stable pensions
   and salaries and won't bother with empty promises of a new way of
   life.

   For his part, Mr Yushchenko sees it as his mission to transform a
   post-Soviet country into a democratic European one. Despite
   allegations of corruption in his entourage, most of Mr Yushchenko's
   support comes from millionaires who need clear rules and independent
   courts to enforce contracts. Since there are no giant industrial
   employers in western Ukraine, private initiative is the only way
   forward. "During the orange revolution, we did not fight for Mr
   Yushchenko, we fought against lawlessness," claims Ms Mala.
   Lawlessness and bureaucratic tyranny are still associated with Mr
   Yanukovich, as prime minister before November 2004. "My business was
   under constant pressure from bureaucrats and administrators who all
   demanded bribes," says Ms Mala.

   The election on September 30th is unlikely to change the balance of
   power in the Ukrainian parliament. Even Mr Yushchenko recognises this:
   "I don't question who will lose and who will win in this election."
   But it may still help to lay down rules to prevent a similar crisis
   unfolding again. None of the three main parties is likely to win a
   majority on its own, so a broad coalition between Mr Yushchenko's Our
   Ukraine and Mr Yanukovich's Party of the Regions, which may not
   include the Tymoshenko Block, appears likely. "We are almost done with
   intrigues, unfair agreements, plots and murky games," Ms Tymoshenko
   wrote in a recent article. For Ukraine's 48m people, "almost" is not
   good enough.


   Pre-election tension is rising among the Kurds of Turkey's south-east


   A GOLD-PLATED pistol in one hand, worry beads in the other, Hazim
   Babat sits at the foot of the mountain range that separates Turkey
   from Iraq and contemplates war. He is the chieftain of the Babat clan,
   which is fighting alongside the Turkish armed forces against the
   Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) separatist guerrillas.

   For years the Babats hunted PKK militants in Iraq with the help of
   Peshmerga warriors from the Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP) from
   northern Iraq, led by Massoud Barzani. "The PKK slaughtered our women,
   our babies, they are going to pay the price," vows Mr Babat.

   But times have changed and the Kurds are beginning to unite, wherever
   they live. Nowhere is this truer than in northern Iraq where, with
   American support, as many as 4m Kurds have come closer to achieving
   full-blown independence than ever before. Mr Barzani, who runs the
   Kurdish-controlled enclave, declares that the days of Kurdish
   fratricide are over. He refuses to let Turkish soldiers overrun his
   territory in order to attack the PKK. "Turkey's real problem", Mr
   Barzani opined recently, "is that the Kurds exist at all."

   Despite its repeated calls for cross-border action against the PKK,
   the army's real target may be the quasi-independent Kurdish state in
   northern Iraq. The generals see an independent Kurdish state as an
   existential threat because it would stoke separatist passions among
   Turkey's 14m-odd Kurds. They are "willing to prevent its emergence no
   matter the price", asserts Ibrahim Guclu, a veteran Kurdish
   politician. "Yet the harder they push, the closer together they drive
   the Iraqi and Turkish Kurds," he adds.

   Mindful of America's opposition and of Kurdish votes, Turkey's mildly
   Islamist prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has ruled out any
   incursion, at least before the general election on July 22nd. Yet
   Turkish forces continue to mass along the Iraqi border. The beefed-up
   army presence is palpable in Sirnak, one of three border provinces in
   which no-go "security zones" have been declared. Turkish soldiers in
   armoured personnel-carriers point guns at passers-by. Attack
   helicopters clatter overhead. In the regional capital of Diyarbakir,
   your correspondent counted no fewer than nine F-16 fighter jets
   screeching towards Sirnak within the space of 20 minutes. The PKK is
   hitting back, murdering soldiers and civilians alike.

   Ayla Akat, a human-rights lawyer who is standing for election in
   Batman for the pro-Kurdish Democratic Turkey Party (DTP), concedes
   that the violence is fuelling anti-Kurdish feelings throughout Turkey.
   She points to the attempted lynching this month of two Kurdish
   seasonal workers in the western province of Sakarya. Yet if the
   government were to accept the PKK's demands to ease restrictions on
   the Kurdish language, offer amnesty to PKK fighters and allow their
   leaders to seek asylum in Europe, "the Kurdish problem would be
   solved", she says. "Is anyone talking about independence?"

   In 2005, emboldened by the European Union's decision to open
   membership talks, Mr Erdogan explored a possible deal that would
   accommodate the Iraqi Kurds too. But he was forced to back off under
   pressure from the army. In the same year Mr Erdogan became the first
   Turkish leader ever to admit that the state had made "mistakes" in
   dealing with the Kurds. His words cemented his Justice and Development
   (AK) Party, whose Islamic credentials play well with millions of pious
   Kurds, as the DTP's main rival in the south-east.

   "My people are going to vote for Erdogan because he wants the European
   Union, and EU membership is the panacea for separatism," says Cemil
   Oter, a tribal leader who has lost 40 men to the PKK. But hopes of
   membership are fading as EU bigwigs, led by France's new president,
   Nicolas Sarkozy, lobby against Turkish entry. EU-inspired reforms that
   helped to win Turkey its prized date for membership talks are being
   quietly rolled back.

   The effects are being felt in Diyarbakir, where a local mayor and his
   entire council were barred from office last week for using Kurdish as
   well as Turkish to communicate with their constituents. Abdullah
   Demirbas had already annoyed the authorities by erecting a monument in
   memory of Ahmet Kaymaz, a Kurdish lorry driver, and his 12-year-old
   son, who were gunned down outside their home in the town of Kiziltepe
   in 2004 on the grounds that they were "terrorists".

   All four members of the special forces who were implicated in the
   killings were exonerated by a court in April, proving that "there is
   rarely justice for the Kurds", says Tahir Elci, a lawyer who defended
   the Kaymaz family. Mr Elci is now facing up to three years in prison
   for criticising the court. Meanwhile, reports of torture have risen
   sharply, because new regulations allow detainees to be denied access
   to a lawyer during the first 24 hours of interrogation by police.

   All these things help to swell PKK ranks. The trouble is that the
   rebels' new tactics--setting off landmines and planting
   explosives--have caught the army off guard. Abdullah Gul, the Turkish
   foreign minister, revealed last week that security forces seized two
   tonnes of plastic explosives smuggled by the PKK from Iraq in 2006
   alone. Mr Gul said that "making compromises over democracy in the name
   of fighting terrorism" was "a trap that should not be contemplated".
   But with each Turkish soldier killed fighting the PKK, Turks'
   enthusiasm for democracy, and for the EU, gets harder to preserve.


   Quarrels over a plan to commemorate German expellees from the east 


   SOME 12m ethnic Germans were expelled from their homes in eastern
   Europe after the second world war; tens of thousands died. Those who
   settled in Germany have long wanted a central memorial to their
   tragedy, but the enormity of the Holocaust and tricky regional
   politics have kept them waiting. On October 22nd Germany's chancellor,
   Angela Merkel, used the 50th anniversary of the Union of Expellees to
   announce government plans for a documentation and exhibition centre on
   refugees and expulsions.

   Will this satisfy the lobbies with the keenest interest? Erika
   Steinbach, head of the expellees' group, professes to be pleased. The
   state has "done its job" by agreeing to create a centre of memory for
   victims of expulsion, she says. Yet a federal place of mourning is
   just what Ms Steinbach's critics want to stop. Anything that likened
   their plight to what befell Jews, gypsies and other victims of Nazi
   genocide would distort history and offend many. And an official
   monument that implied guilt on the part of countries that expelled
   them could enrage the Polish and Czech governments.

   Ms Steinbach, a member of Ms Merkel's Christian Democratic Union
   (CDU), has fanned such suspicions with her blunt advocacy of the
   expellees' claims. Ask her who was responsible for their tragedy, and
   she instantly says it was the countries that pushed them out. She has
   "wrecked our relations with Poland", says Wolfgang Benz of the Centre
   for the Study of Anti-Semitism in Berlin.

   The document centre, under the aegis of Berlin's German History
   Museum, is meant to avoid controversy. It would deal with expulsions
   in general, not only those of Germans. Nor would it be at all like
   Berlin's Holocaust memorial. "There can be nothing against a
   scientific centre," says Mr Benz. The CDU's partners, the Social
   Democrats, want Ms Steinbach to have nothing to do with the centre.
   Poland's recent election, which ousted the nationalist prime minister,
   Jaroslaw Kaczynski, in favour of Donald Tusk, a moderate, may help.

   Commemorative fashions go in cycles, says Gavriel Rosenfeld, a
   historian at Connecticut's Fairfield University. Shortly after the war
   urban memorials commemorated mainly Germans themselves, including
   victims of Allied bombing. That began to change in the 1960s, and even
   more in the 1980s, when the political climate made it seem more
   appropriate to concentrate on the Nazis' victims. Now, after several
   books about post-war suffering and the new documentation centre,
   Germans may return to themselves. The latest example: a defence
   ministry plan for a memorial to the 2,600 German soldiers who have
   died for the federal republic.


   Controversy over a law to avert conflicts of interest 

   IT IS an issue that has bedevilled Italian politics for over a decade:
   what to do about Silvio Berlusconi's twin roles as politician and
   media mogul? The former prime minister and his family control a huge
   media empire that includes a publisher, two newspapers and all three
   of Italy's biggest private television networks. When he was in power
   in 1994, and again in 2001-06, he was able to influence the three
   state-owned channels as well--giving him direct influence over 90% of
   Italian terrestrial television.

   This week a parliamentary committee began discussing a bill, tabled by
   the whip of the biggest group in Romano Prodi's centre-left
   government, that would tackle such conflicts of interest. The boss of
   Silvio Berlusconi's TV empire, Mediaset, likened it to the
   stringing-up of Benito Mussolini by communist partisans. But what
   eventually emerges will be far less drastic.

   As it stands the bill would create a special watchdog authority. It
   would force politicians with non-property assets of more than EUR10m
   ($13m) to hand them over to a "blind trust", and require similar
   arrangements for all assets owned by office-holders in the energy,
   defence and media businesses. Such a law would replace one approved by
   parliament in 2004 (when Mr Berlusconi was in power) that was widely
   lambasted as toothless.

   The Prodi government has said it will amend the bill. Its final shape
   will depend on painful and difficult compromises both within the
   governing coalition and, quite possibly, between government and
   opposition. Most leftist politicians regard their failure to curb Mr
   Berlusconi's media power before he returned to office in 2001 as an
   historic error. But, with a majority of only two seats in the Senate,
   they could yet find themselves dependent on the centre-right to pass
   the new law.

   There are also wide differences over how broadly it should be drawn.
   The Italy of Values party, a small outfit led by a former prosecutor,
   Antonio Di Pietro, who spent the heyday of his career trying to send
   Mr Berlusconi to jail, wants a tough, radical measure. But some fear
   that voters would react against what might look like a crude reprisal
   against the former prime minister. Earlier this month Mr Prodi's
   communications minister said that an answer might be found that "in no
   way touches Silvio Berlusconi in person". For the sake of Italian
   democracy, something a bit bolder should at least be tried.


   The president tries to face down protests from the opposition


   IT WAS exactly four years ago that Mikheil Saakashvili, then a
   youthful firebrand leader of the opposition to President Eduard
   Shevardnadze, brought his supporters out into the streets of Tbilisi.
   The protesters were complaining that Mr Shevardnadze had staged and
   won a rigged parliamentary election. The demonstrations were peaceful
   but, because they went on day after day, also intimidating. Within
   days, Georgia's "rose revolution" had driven Mr Shevardnadze out of
   power and installed Mr Saakashvili in his place.

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                   While we were marching through Georgia

   Four years on it is Mr Saakashvili who has been confronted by the
   biggest protests since the rose revolution. The most recent ones, in
   central Tbilisi and in front of the parliament building, have
   attracted crowds at least 50,000 strong. The protesters object to Mr
   Saakashvili's forceful, hands-on style, complain that the benefits of
   the boom (annual GDP growth is close to 10%) have been too narrowly
   shared, and demand fresh elections.

   Yet unlike Mr Shevardnadze four years ago, Mr Saakashvili seems
   determined to hang on. He claims the demonstrations are part of a
   Kremlin-backed putsch against him. "High-ranking officials in Russian
   special services are behind this," he said, adding that several
   Russian diplomats would be expelled. Georgia's ambassador to Moscow
   has been recalled.

   Certainly Russia has systematically provoked Georgia, with trade and
   energy sanctions, harassment of Georgian migrants in Russia, and--most
   recently--mysterious air raids. But Mr Saakashvili's response will do
   little to help his country's reputation as a shop window for the West
   in the former Soviet Union.

   On November 7th police forcefully dispersed the protesters, using
   tear-gas and water cannon. Scores of people were reported injured.
   Among those beaten was Georgia's human-rights ombudsman, Sozar Subari.
   The government then declared a 15-day state of emergency. Riot police
   stormed the main opposition television station, Imedi, and took it off
   the air.

   Countries that normally support Georgia against Russian bullying are
   aghast. Many have been worried privately for some time about cronyism
   in Mr Saakashvili's inner circle. Last month the secretary-general of
   NATO, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, underlined the need for greater political
   transparency and a stricter rule of law if Georgia wants to progress
   towards membership. Outsiders worry that state influence on the media
   is too strong. Many think that the government mishandled a spectacular
   bust-up last month with the firebrand former defence minister, Irakli
   Okruashvili, now in exile.

   Yet the opposition's stance can sound hysterical and sometimes
   outlandish (hanging the president in effigy and demanding the
   restoration of the monarchy after a 200-year interregnum). Given the
   shambles that Mr Saakashvili took over in 2003, the obstacles he has
   faced and the progress he has made, criticisms of him may seem harsh.
   The opposition's motives are open to question too. Badri
   Patarkatsishvili, a tycoon who fled from Russia, openly bankrolls some
   of the protesters, no doubt for admirable reasons. That raises
   questions about the influence of big money in poor countries'
   politics. An adviser to Mr Saakashvili says those backing the
   opposition want Georgia to be a weak state that big business can
   manipulate.

   Western countries will be urging Mr Saakashvili to return political
   life to normal as soon as possible. If he cannot produce proof of
   Russian involvement, many will feel that he has cried wolf, using his
   country's geopolitical significance for narrow domestic advantage.
   Ketevan Tsikhelashvili, a Tbilisi-based analyst, comments that Mr
   Saakashvili and his government have survived, but adds that "in the
   longer term I cannot say his perspectives look very good." At the very
   least this week's events have shown how disillusioned many Georgians
   now are with Mr Saakashvili's commitment to the rose revolution's
   ideals: freedom, legality and international respectability.


   A new star takes the European stage


   HOLLYWOOD calls it star quality. In politics, the word is charisma.
   Nobody can define it; everybody wants it; and France's President
   Nicolas Sarkozy seems to have it. That was certainly the impression
   created at the European Union summit in Brussels. As Britain's Tony
   Blair briefed jaded reporters in a room dotted with empty chairs, Mr
   Sarkozy wowed a jam-packed press room next door. One diplomat talked
   admiringly of his "fizzing political energy". Even the leftish daily
   Libération declared the summit "an unquestionable success" for Mr
   Sarkozy, and published a poll showing that 63% of French voters
   approve of him.

   Nearly two months after his election, outsiders are getting the
   measure of the "hyper-president". For ten years, Mr Blair has been the
   European leader who fascinated his peers the most. Now Mr Sarkozy
   could take on that role. His showmanship may sometimes grate, but even
   his detractors recognise his energy and his deal-making skills.
   "Frankly," said Jack Lang, a Socialist Party grandee, of the summit,
   "we couldn't have done it better."

   The main trophy Mr Sarkozy brought home from Brussels was the new
   simplified treaty that, he likes to recall, he single-handedly dreamt
   up as a presidential candidate. But there was more. "We have obtained
   a major reorientation of the union's objectives," he said of the
   removal of a clause enshrining "free and undistorted competition" as
   an EU objective. To the consternation of market liberals, he said this
   meant "the end of competition as an ideology and dogma" in Europe.

   What is the hitherto reformist Mr Sarkozy's game? Partly, it is just
   domestic politics. Although he has been handed a robust mandate, Mr
   Sarkozy is still mindful of the 55% of French voters who rejected the
   draft EU constitution in a referendum two years ago. Among them was
   around half the Socialist Party. At the time, the No campaign
   denounced the phrase on undistorted competition as evidence of a
   liberal Anglo-Saxon plot. When parliament ratifies the new treaty,
   probably next year, Mr Sarkozy hopes to deploy the removal of this
   clause to disarm rejectionists.

   A second answer, however, has more to do with conviction than tactics.
   Mr Sarkozy has long advocated an unorthodox blend of free-market
   economics with unapologetic industrial interventionism. On fiscal
   policy and labour-market reform, he is genuinely liberal. But as
   finance minister in 2004 he irked the Germans by helping a French drug
   firm to take over a Franco-German rival, as well as thwarting an
   effort by another German company, Siemens, to buy bits of Alstom, a
   French engineering group. Mr Sarkozy persuaded the European Commission
   to let him use taxpayers' money to rescue Alstom--which in the end
   paid off handsomely for the state--but was exasperated by the bruising
   battle it involved. He thus showed not only his belief in national
   champions, but also his visible irritation with the idea that such
   champions can be blocked by Brussels.

   In Mr Sarkozy's case, this belief is not merely a classic Colbertist
   reflex. He did not attend the elite Ecole Nationale d'Administration,
   so is not programmed to believe in dirigisme. Rather, he mixes
   Gaullist faith in the state with a tinge of industrial romanticism.
   During his election, his preferred campaign stop was the factory
   floor, where he liked to be surrounded by workers in blue overalls and
   hard hats, symbols of the industrious values of muscular hard work and
   early rising. Everywhere he repeated his rallying cry: "If the
   factories go, there will be nothing left."

   Mr Sarkozy is thus promising to be a vigorous defender of French
   industry. This could provoke awkward clashes. In mid-July, he faces
   delicate negotiations over the future of the aviation group EADS at a
   Franco-German meeting in Toulouse. On non-industrial matters, and to
   British indignation, he is also serious about opposing Turkish
   membership of the EU: this week France blocked the opening of one of
   three new chapters in Turkey's negotiations. In short, nobody should
   doubt Mr Sarkozy's determination to get his way. Star quality may
   dazzle, but even box-office sensations can be hard to deal with.


   The Turkish economy is doing well, but it is also vulnerable


   IN 2001 Turkey's president, Ahmet Necdet Sezer, flung a copy of the
   constitution at the prime minister, Bulent Ecevit, helping to plunge
   the country into its worst financial crisis since the war. This year
   Turkey has lurched from one political mess to another. In April a top
   general threatened a coup; an early general election was held in July;
   in August Abdullah Gul, a former foreign minister whose wife wears an
   Islamic-style headscarf, became president over the army's objections;
   then Turkey threatened to invade northern Iraq. Yet, in contrast to
   2001, the markets have barely blinked through all the turbulence.

   In truth, the economy is far healthier than it was, thanks mainly to a
   rigid adherence to IMF-prescribed reforms on the part of the ruling
   Justice and Development (AK) party. Since AK came to power in 2002 GDP
   growth has averaged 6.6%, inflation has fallen to single digits and
   foreign direct investment (FDI) has soared. AK's economic record is
   one reason why it won a sharply increased share of the vote (although
   fewer seats) in July.

   Yet Lorenzo Giorgianni, the IMF's top man for Turkey, rightly says
   that this strong economic performance should not be taken for granted.
   Year-on-year GDP growth in the third quarter was the lowest for six
   years, at just 1.5%. The credit crunch and fears of an American
   recession are curbing investors' appetites for emerging markets.
   Turkey, with a huge current-account deficit, is especially vulnerable.
   Negotiations for Turkish membership of the European Union, the
   prospect of which is an anchor for investor confidence, have soured.
   The IMF programme itself is due to expire next May and the government
   has yet to decide whether to renew it.

   The current-account deficit is being boosted by a rising energy bill.
   As manufacturers shift to higher value-added goods, they need costlier
   inputs. Coupled with an overvalued Turkish lira, all this has served
   to push up the import bill. In previous years the deficit was financed
   by hot money, making the economy more vulnerable. Now nearly
   two-thirds of the deficit is covered by FDI, which may hit $22 billion
   this year. Metin Ar, president of Garanti Securities in Istanbul,
   predicts that, with the privatisation of motorways and of
   energy-distribution networks, FDI could rise to $30 billion next year.
   "Foreigners are so keen to get a foot into the market that they are
   happy to pay double, triple the real value of assets."

   With their dizzyingly high profits and much untapped retail potential,
   Turkish banks look appealing targets. New regulations can require
   capital-adequacy ratios to be as high as 20%, against the
   international minimum of 8%. "We don't allow any bank to go below
   12%," says Mehmet Simsek, the economy minister. He adds that the
   state-owned Halkbank is soon to be put on the block.

   Mr Simsek, who was snatched into the job from Merrill Lynch in London,
   agrees that "markets like external anchors" and concedes that Turkey
   is not immune to external shocks. Yet he sees no crisis on the
   horizon. His main task is to push through a social-security reform
   that is a test of the government's commitment to reform. His biggest
   bugbear is high labour costs. He provoked an outcry when he complained
   that Turkey had one of the highest wage burdens among OECD countries.
   High taxes on labour, plus onerous welfare benefits, are a big
   obstacle to the creation of new jobs. Unemployment hovers at around
   10%.

   There is little doubt that Mr Simsek has the will and the brains to do
   what is needed. Ercan Uygur, an economist who taught Mr Simsek at
   Ankara University, says he was "one of my best students". Yet some
   political observers worry that Mr Simsek, who is only 40, may not have
   enough clout. Unlike his predecessor, Ali Babacan, now Turkey's
   foreign minister, Mr Simsek is a newcomer to AK politics. His swift
   rise has provoked some jealousy within the party.

   In truth Mr Simsek cuts an unusual figure in the government, and not
   only as a former investment banker with an American wife. He was born
   into grinding poverty in the mainly Kurdish province of Batman. He did
   not even learn Turkish until he was six. By his own admission, he is
   more comfortable speaking English. A big Shakira fan, he provoked
   mirth at a recent cabinet meeting when he misused the word transparan,
   meaning see-through, while talking about the budget.

   Yet for now, at least, Mr Simsek has the full confidence of his prime
   minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. And it is Mr Erdogan who calls the
   shots. The concern is whether it may be Mr Simsek who gets the blame
   should the economy slow further and foreign investors take fright.


   A timely reminder of the risk of terrorism in Europe

   THE targets are said to have included Frankfurt airport, Germany's
   busiest, and an American air base. The collective power of the bombs
   would have exceeded those used in Madrid and London in 2004 and 2005
   respectively. But on September 4th the plot to commit Germany's
   bloodiest act of terrorism was foiled with the arrest of three men in
   a village in central Germany. The arrests came a day after Danish
   police averted another "major act of terrorism" by arresting eight
   young Muslims in the suburbs of Copenhagen. Six were later released
   but two were charged.

   That terrorist conspiracies could be hatched in Denmark and Germany is
   not a complete surprise. The Danes have staged three terrorism swoops
   in three years. Last year two men of Lebanese origin planted suitcase
   bombs on two trains in Germany; they failed to explode. There have
   been many reports of young Germans going to Pakistan for training
   sessions. The interior minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, has given warning
   of high risks.

   Yet most Germans assumed their country was relatively safe, mainly
   because (unlike Britain, Denmark and Spain) it did not send troops to
   Iraq. "Germans don't take the threat as seriously as they should,"
   said Guido Steinberg, a former adviser to the chancellery on
   terrorism, days before the arrests.

   That will change now. Two of the arrested men are German converts to
   Islam. The other is one of Germany's 3m Turks, who have provided few
   terrorist recruits. Two of the three had trained in Pakistan and all
   seem to have links with the Islamic Jihad Union, which staged several
   terrorist attacks in Uzbekistan in 2004. They may have been planning
   to strike on the anniversary of the September 11th attacks in New
   York. And they may have hoped to affect the debate on Germany's 3,000
   troops in Afghanistan. Germany is to decide shortly whether to renew
   its commitments there, which are unpopular and opposed by many Social
   Democrats.

   Germany's law-enforcement coup may also boost Mr Schäuble's campaign
   for a law that would allow the authorities to spy on suspected
   terrorists by secretly inserting "remote forensic software" into their
   computers. That proposal has sparked an outcry in a country that is
   especially sensitive to the possibility of abuse by secret police.
   Since the law has not yet been passed, the authorities could not use
   such spyware to catch the would-be bombers, Mr Schäuble said. But he
   added that, since terrorists use "modern communications", so should
   the government.


   Serbia's presidential election this weekend is critical to the
   region's future

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                                     Tadic, a tad nervous


   WHEN an election was held in Croatia last November, it was hailed as
   the first in 20 years in which voters could be sure that the winner
   would not stop Croatia from moving towards the European Union. Judging
   by the rancorous debates of recent weeks, the people of Serbia, who
   vote for a president on January 20th, can only envy their neighbours.

   There are two serious candidates: Boris Tadic, the pro-European
   incumbent, and Tomislav Nikolic, acting leader of the
   extreme-nationalist Radicals. Although more formal power lies with the
   prime minister, Vojislav Kostunica, than with the president, the
   result matters hugely. And it comes at a delicate moment. Within weeks
   Kosovo plans to declare independence, and will be recognised by many
   countries. How Serbia responds will define its future.

   On paper Kosovo is still part of Serbia. But since the war of 1999 it
   has been under the jurisdiction of the United Nations. Some 90% of its
   2m people are ethnic Albanians who have long demanded independence.
   When that comes, it will be the end of the Serbian control, real or
   nominal, that began when Serbia retook the province from the Ottoman
   Turks in 1912.

   The UN is handing control of Kosovo over to the EU, which has agreed
   in principle to establish a large mission to deal with police and
   justice in the province. At the same time Serbia is ready to sign a
   stabilisation and association agreement (SAA) with the EU, normally a
   first step towards membership. That would bring substantial funds plus
   a set of reforms the country needs to make before joining, thereby
   catching up with Croatia, which is already negotiating its EU
   membership. It may be helpful that Slovenia, another bit of former
   Yugoslavia, currently holds the six-monthly rotating EU presidency.

   Mr Tadic's party is pro-Western, but still opposes Kosovo's
   independence. It shares power in government with Mr Kostunica's
   conservative nationalists. Mr Kostunica has said that any EU mission
   to Kosovo would be illegal without Serbia's consent, and also that
   Serbia should not sign its SAA if the mission goes ahead or if most EU
   countries recognise Kosovo's independence (which they will).

   Mr Tadic responds that, whatever happens in Kosovo, Serbia has no
   choice but to sign the SAA. Mladjan Dinkic, Serbia's finance minister,
   adds that it would be a "catastrophe" if Serbia were the only country
   in the region left out of the EU. Serbia, he says, will attract $6
   billion of foreign direct investment this year, but it is clear that
   potential investors will lose faith if the country abandons its course
   for the EU. Mr Nikolic, on the other hand, agrees with Mr Kostunica
   that if most EU countries go ahead with plans to recognise Kosovo,
   Serbia should give up trying to join the club.

   Opinion polls suggest a close result on January 20th, which means a
   second round between the top two candidates will have to be held on
   February 3rd. Mr Kostunica's party is not offering a candidate,
   neither is it backing Mr Tadic; many of the prime minister's
   supporters may rather vote for Mr Nikolic in the second round. And
   though Mr Tadic may still squeak through, he cannot count on much
   enthusiasm from many of his erstwhile supporters who think he has been
   a weak president, bossed around by Mr Kostunica.

   It was originally hoped that Serbia could sign the SAA on January
   28th, between the two rounds. That hope is fading, because some
   countries are reluctant to let Serbia have the deal until it hands
   over Ratko Mladic, a Bosnian-Serb general indicted for genocide, to
   The Hague war-crimes tribunal. Even if the agreement is signed, the
   quarrel over Serbia's future in Europe will continue--for if the EU
   sends its mission to Kosovo, Mr Kostunica's party could then block
   parliamentary ratification of the SAA. Serbia's long slog towards
   normality never seems to end.


   A worm in the bud of the rose revolution?


   AS BEFITS a land of film-makers and actors, Georgia likes to play its
   politics as spectacle. That is why, on September 28th, Rustaveli
   Avenue, in Tbilisi, was again awash with demonstrators. Echoes of the
   rose revolution of four years ago are faint: the numbers were far
   smaller and most of the protesters older. But by bringing the crowds
   on to the same streets as in November 2003, the opposition made a
   telling point against President Mikhail Saakashvili.

   The man whose arrest on corruption charges drew out the protesters is
   a former defence minister, Irakly Okruashvili. At 33, he is younger
   and more hotheaded even than Mr Saakashvili. He once promised to
   celebrate new year in Tskhinvali, capital of the breakaway territory
   of South Ossetia. Mr Saakashvili sacked him last year. Mr Okruashvili
   brooded silently for months before producing lurid allegations against
   his former boss. He has accused the president of ordering the murder
   of a Georgian media magnate, Badri Patarkatsishvili, and has cast
   doubt on the death in 2005 of the then prime minister, Zurab Zhvania,
   officially in an accident.

   Yet it is Mr Okruashvili's charges of corruption in the president's
   inner circle that may be more damaging. Mr Saakashvili made his name
   as a crusader for honest government and against nepotism. Mr
   Okruashvili now looks like the jilted outcast of a clan that bends the
   law in its own interests. He has put before Georgians some ugly
   questions that need answering. Mr Saakashvili has dismissed Mr
   Okruashvili's claims as "unpardonable lies"--but he has not answered
   them directly.

   On the whole, Mr Saakashvili's young team has transformed Georgia for
   the better, increasing tax revenues and overhauling the public sector.
   But critics say some measures have paid scant regard to due process.
   Allegedly corrupt officials have been arrested on television and made
   to pay fines directly into the state budget. Prisoners have been
   ill-treated. Shopkeepers and residents of Tbilisi complain that their
   property rights have been flouted in the name of rebuilding the city.
   The leaders of a bloodless revolution in a poor country now preside
   over one of the world's fastest-growing defence budgets.

   A host of discontents has crystallised around the arrest of Mr
   Okruashvili. Eight opposition groups have united into one. Mr
   Saakashvili is losing the aura he once had of being the sole
   undisputed leader of Georgia. In the past he has faced down critics
   with histrionics and theatrical brinkmanship. A sober response, not so
   far in his political repertoire, may now be called for.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [5]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=24617362?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://www.economist.com/background/displayBackground.cfm?story_id=10009704
   4. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   5. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

   President Nicolas Sarkozy courts controversy by welcoming Libya's
   leader, Muammar Qaddafi


   THE khaki Bedouin tent was pitched just across from the Elysée Palace.
   Police blocked off the road to allow a white stretch limousine to
   glide into the courtyard. In short, Nicolas Sarkozy bent over
   backwards to welcome Muammar Qaddafi, Libya's leader, on a five-day
   visit. By doing so he prompted a furore in France--and called into
   question his declared wish for a more moral foreign policy.

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

                                            Welcome to Paris, mon colonel

   Mr Sarkozy is not the only Western leader to embrace Mr Qaddafi since
   the Libyan leader escaped from diplomatic isolation in 2003, after
   renouncing a secret nuclear-weapons programme and taking official
   responsibility for past acts of terrorism. Britain's Tony Blair
   dropped in on him in Tripoli in 2004, and was back again to sign an
   oil deal earlier this year. Italy's Romano Prodi, as European
   Commission president, met him in Brussels.

   But nobody else has laid on such a welcome. Mr Qaddafi had two
   audiences with Mr Sarkozy, as well as a parliamentary reception and
   dinner at the Elysée--on World Human Rights Day. In return, Libya
   agreed to buy from France hardware worth more than EUR10 billion ($14
   billion), including 21 Airbus aircraft, military helicopters, 14
   Rafale fighters, armoured vehicles and missiles. France is also to
   supply a nuclear reactor to Libya. The ground for these deals was
   prepared in June, when Mr Sarkozy visited Mr Qaddafi after the Libyan
   leader had freed six Bulgarian medical staff on death row, following
   intermediation by the president's then wife, Cécilia.

   Mr Sarkozy may merely be keeping up a tradition of using diplomacy for
   commercial ends, something his predecessor, Jacques Chirac, did all
   the time. But unlike Mr Chirac, Mr Sarkozy claims to want a
   human-rights dimension in foreign policy. One goal of French
   diplomacy, he said in his election campaign, should be "to promote
   freedom and human rights on the international scene". He added that
   "just because China and Russia are great powers one should not refrain
   from denouncing the violations of human rights that are committed
   there." To this end, he made Bernard Kouchner, a left-wing former
   humanitarian champion, his foreign minister. And he gave Rama Yade, a
   feisty 31-year-old Senegalese, a human-rights post in the foreign
   ministry.

   Yet a pattern has emerged that does not fit these lofty aspirations.
   When Mr Sarkozy flew to China last month, and bagged over EUR19
   billion in contracts for French firms, he excluded Ms Yade from the
   trip. When Russia staged a flawed legislative election, described by
   Germany's Angela Merkel as "neither a free, fair nor democratic
   election", Mr Sarkozy telephoned Vladimir Putin to offer
   "congratulations", to the dismay of fellow Europeans.

   This week opposition deputies walked out in protest over Mr Qaddafi's
   visit to parliament. Even more stinging criticism came from Ms Yade.
   "Colonel Qaddafi must understand", the human-rights minister told Le
   Parisien, "that our country is not a doormat, on which a leader,
   terrorist or not, can come to wipe the blood of his crimes from his
   feet." As for Mr Kouchner, he was in Brussels during the Elysée
   dinner; he called this a "happy coincidence".

   Mr Sarkozy argues that it is sterile to oppose an idealistic to a
   realistic brand of foreign policy. He believes you can pursue both.
   Even as he pushes arms contracts and entertains the likes of Mr
   Qaddafi, he is also sending over 1,000 French peacekeepers to the
   Darfur border. France is ready to talk to anybody who tries to improve
   their behaviour. As Mr Sarkozy asked, "what would we say to Iranian
   leaders if we did not offer a hand to a Libyan leader who has himself
   chosen to turn his back on nuclear arms and terrorism?"

   The trouble arises when one pursues moral diplomacy and realpolitik
   with the same country. Were the arms contracts from Libya part of the
   deal to free the Bulgarian nurses? Mr Sarkozy says not, but the terms
   are being looked at by a parliamentary inquiry. Mr Sarkozy is pressing
   to free hostages in Colombia, among them Ingrid Betancourt, a
   Franco-Colombian. But he also persuaded the Colombians to free a top
   guerrilla from the FARC, considered a terrorist group by America and
   Europe.

   In short, Mr Sarkozy's action-man diplomacy is about results, not
   means: if it works, it works. The release of Ms Betancourt, for
   instance, would be warmly welcomed in France. And Mr Sarkozy has no
   time for left-bank intellectuals "so sure of what they think while
   drinking coffee on the Boulevard Saint-Germain". They may not have
   much time for him, either.


   Viktor Gerashchenko, an implausible presidential candidate


   THE Kremlin has no taste for spontaneous opposition. It could thus
   hardly wish for a better opponent than Viktor Gerashchenko, a sardonic
   former central banker. He is old, adaptable, unpopular and has little
   chance of uniting the opposition, let alone the country. Even in
   Moscow his rating is no more than 10%. Indeed, the Kremlin liked him
   so much that, in the 2004 election, it asked him to play the part of a
   challenger from the nationalist Rodina party to Vladimir Putin. "They
   felt they wanted someone respectable to stand against Putin," he says.

   This time the 69-year-old Mr Gerashchenko has volunteered himself as a
   joint candidate for the opposition. The reason, he claims, is that he
   can no longer stand the way that Mr Putin runs Russia. Even if he is
   old, he says, so was Charles de Gaulle. Yet his nomination testifies
   to the sad state of Russia's political opposition, which lacks
   unifying leaders and ideas. Other candidates include a former prime
   minister, Mikhail Kasyanov, whose rating is half that of Mr
   Gerashchenko's, and Vladimir Bukovsky, a Soviet dissident in Britain.

   More significantly, Mr Gerashchenko's stance is a sign of growing
   alienation among the old Soviet elite from the Kremlin, which they
   feel has been hijacked by unprofessional security-service officers. Mr
   Gerashchenko was the cream of the Soviet bureaucracy. His father was a
   leading banker and Mr Gerashchenko was posted to London to the first
   Soviet foreign bank at only 28. Two years later, he moved to Beirut
   (he is said to be highly respected by the KGB elite).

   As head of the central bank under Russia's first post-Soviet
   president, Boris Yeltsin, he handed out cheap credits to weak Russian
   banks, leading to high inflation and winning him the sobriquet "the
   worst central banker in the world" from Jeffrey Sachs, an American
   economist. His most recent incarnation was as chairman of Yukos, a now
   dismantled oil company, whose founder is in a Russian jail: "I was
   supposed to be a go-between for the Kremlin and Mikhail Khodorkovsky,"
   he says.

   Nor did Mr Gerashchenko mince words when he summed up, on air, the
   fate of Yukos: "The fuckers nicked it." His office was raided by
   prosecutors, who left empty-handed. His biggest issue with the Kremlin
   is not war in Chechnya, foreign policy or even freedom of speech; it
   is the inefficiency, endemic stealing and lack of professionalism of
   top bureaucrats. "The infrastructure is in a terrible state, most
   people in Russia live extremely poorly; there is no competition in
   some sectors, which means high inflation. Given the conditions, we
   could live a lot better."

   What upsets him and his peers most is Mr Putin's "cadres policy". For
   all its rigidity, the Soviet Union offered some social mobility and a
   way for bright, politically ambitious or well-connected people from
   the provinces to rise to the top. The system needed and promoted
   professionals, says Mr Gerashchenko. But Mr Putin's entourage is made
   up mainly of people who "went to the same school or played in the same
   courtyard", he adds. His views may not appeal to ordinary Russians,
   but they will to those among the elite who failed to play in the same
   sandpit as Mr Putin.


   Poland does not see why the European Union should stop it burning coal

   THE Polish economy is growing fast, despite the global slowdown. That
   means it is consuming more energy. But the government has no real
   energy policy--so the country will end up using more coal, with all
   that implies for carbon emissions.

   As it happens, the biggest worry about energy in Poland is not carbon
   but the Nord Stream pipeline, which is due to pump Russian gas
   directly to Germany under the Baltic Sea, bypassing Poland. Polish
   objections are not, as in Sweden, about the environmental risks;
   rather, the Poles fear Russia may exploit its direct access to Germany
   to divide Europe. All Polish politicians oppose the project. Lech
   Kaczynski, Poland's president, hoped last year to forge an alliance
   with four ex-Soviet states to help Poland diversify its energy sources
   away from Russia. But the president of petro-pumping Kazakhstan,
   Nursultan Nazarbayev, pulled out, cancelling his trip to a
   Polish-sponsored energy summit.

   Nuclear-power policy is no more successful. An agreement between
   Poland and the three Baltic countries to build a nuclear-power plant
   on the site of a former Soviet reactor in Lithuania has not yet been
   signed. The Poles are unhappy that the Lithuanians are offering them
   less than the 1,200 megawatts of electricity they need for the project
   to make economic sense. Another idea is to build a nuclear-power plant
   in Poland itself, its first. But this is unpopular with Poles, who
   recall the Chernobyl disaster in Ukraine.

   So attention returns to coal. Waldemar Pawlak, the economy minister,
   has declared his love for the black stuff and, partly in response to
   record oil prices, has even called for greater emphasis on it. Poland
   depends on coal for some 95% of its electricity. But the European
   Union's ambitious plans to cut carbon-dioxide emissions by 20% by 2020
   and to boost renewable energy are raising questions over coal. The
   Poles have already taken the European Commission to court over their
   emissions allowance, which they say is unreasonably low. This clash
   will continue, as all EU members seek higher emissions allowances and
   lower targets for renewables (see [3]article).

   Poland will inevitably continue to rely heavily on coal, says Jerzy
   Buzek, an engineer who served as prime minister in 1997-2001 and is
   now a member of the European Parliament. The country has the biggest
   coal reserves in the European Union (see chart). The government
   supports the development of technology to make it cleaner and more
   efficient to burn coal, but that is not yet available. Mr Buzek pins
   his hopes on techniques to liquefy or gasify coal, but they are not
   yet developed. The capture and storage of carbon emissions underground
   is another possibility, but has yet to be used on any scale. And it
   could send the cost of coal soaring.

   Next week, the commission will propose its emissions targets. Like
   others in eastern Europe, the Poles think the problem has been caused
   by richer countries. But as the biggest EU member in the region, they
   need an energy policy, too.


                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

   The Turkish army continues to play a big role in the country's
   domestic and foreign politics--too big, say its critics


   THIS week's flurry of stories about a purported Turkish invasion of
   northern Iraq confirmed again the special position the army has in
   Turkey. The reports turned out to be exaggerated, but troops and
   armour are massing on the border (see picture), and fears of a
   large-scale intrusion into Iraq remain (see [4]article). For now,
   though, attention will revert to the army's part in domestic politics.

   It is brought home over tea in Istanbul's posh Galata district by
   Tayfun Mater, a left-wing activist, as he describes being tortured
   after the coup in 1980. "The worst bit was when they hung me from the
   ceiling by the arms and applied electric shocks to my penis and
   testicles," says Mr Mater, who spent five years in prison. By the time
   the army handed back power to the civilians in 1983, over half a
   million Turks had been put in prison; 50, including a 17-year-old boy,
   were executed.

   Until recently most Turks believed the days of coups were over. But
   that belief was shattered late on April 27th, when a threat to
   intervene against Turkey's mildly Islamist government was posted on
   the general staff's website, touching off a political earthquake that
   still reverberates.

   The "cyber coup" eventually led the prime minister, Recep Tayyip
   Erdogan, to call an early general election on July 22nd. Abdullah Gul,
   the foreign minister, had to withdraw his bid to replace President
   Ahmet Necdet Sezer, who was due to step down in May. Yet the polls
   suggest that Mr Erdogan's AK Party may return with even more than the
   34% that, thanks to most other parties missing the 10% threshold for
   seats, catapulted it to sole power in 2002. What might the generals do
   then?

   The question echoes around the Ankara cocktail circuit, but it raises
   a host of others. Was the ultimatum delivered under pressure from
   hot-headed junior officers threatening to take matters into their own
   hands? Does the army really believe that the AK government is steering
   Turkey away from Ataturk's revered secular republic towards religious
   rule? Was it all a crude stab at wrecking Turkey's chances of joining
   the European Union? And, again, will the army invade northern Iraq?

   The diary of Ozden Ornek, a retired naval chief, leaked in late March
   to Nokta, a Turkish weekly, suggests several factors may have been
   involved. Excerpts include details of two separate planned coups
   concocted in 2004 that were quashed by the then chief of the general
   staff, Hilmi Ozkok. Conversations between the plotters show suspicions
   of both AK and General Ozkok. Indeed, his enthusiasm for democracy and
   the EU leads them to conclude that he is an "Islamist" too.

   Mr Ornek insists the diary is fake and is suing Nokta for libel. But
   General Ozkok has hinted otherwise, saying that the claims "needed to
   be investigated". Meanwhile, military prosecutors have filed separate
   charges against Lale Sariibrahimoglu, a respected military analyst,
   for her comments to Nokta (which has since been closed down). She
   could spend two years in jail if convicted on charges of "insulting
   members of the military".

   The notion that "the army knows what is best for the people and that
   they cannot be trusted to govern themselves lies at the heart of their
   continued meddling in politics," observes Umit Kardas, a retired
   military prosecutor. It was such thinking (drilled into young officers
   early on) that led the generals to enshrine a right to intervene in
   the regulations that they drafted for themselves in the 1980s.

   The EU insists that any such right must be scrapped if Turkey is ever
   to join its club. So must the system of military courts, which shield
   soldiers from prosecution by civilians. The chief of the general staff
   should be answerable to the defence minister, not the other way round.
   Not surprisingly, the generals' feelings towards the EU are now mixed.
   Joining the EU would crown Ataturk's dream of cementing Turkey's place
   in the West. Yet they want this "only if it can be on their own
   terms--and that means retaining all their privileges," according to
   Ali Bayramoglu, a long-time observer of the army.

   Mr Erdogan became the first political leader to have trimmed the
   army's powers, when his government reduced the National Security
   Council (through which the army barks orders) to an advisory role.
   This and other dramatic reforms helped to persuade the EU to open
   membership talks with Turkey in 2005.

   Fears that their influence might be watered down even more have
   transformed some generals into the EU's fiercest critics. None more so
   than Yasar Buyukanit, who took over from General Ozkok last year. His
   salvoes against creeping Islamisation are often accompanied by veiled
   claims that the EU is trying to dismember Turkey by supporting Kurds
   and other minorities.

   The army's sense of vulnerability has been heightened by a deepening
   rift with America over Iraq. During the cold war, the generals (in
   charge of NATO's second-biggest army) were America's chief
   interlocutors, which bolstered their influence at home. Anti-American
   feelings exploded among Turks in 2003, when American soldiers arrested
   11 Turkish special-force troops in northern Iraq, on suspicion of
   plotting to murder a Kurdish politician. Most Turks saw the move as
   punishment for Turkey's refusal earlier that year to let American
   troops cross its territory to open a second front in Iraq. Trust
   between the two armies has yet to be restored. Tuncer Kilinc, the
   penultimate general to head the National Security Council, told an
   audience in London recently that Turkey should pull out of NATO and
   make friends with Russia, Iran, China and India instead.

   The army's anti-Western stance resonates well with ordinary Turks, who
   are disgusted by America's behaviour in Iraq and by the EU's dithering
   over Turkish membership. The army is still rated as the country's most
   popular institution. To the millions of urban middle-class Turks who
   staged anti-government protests last month, the army remains the best
   guarantor of Ataturk's secular republic.

   Yet, as Mr Ornek reportedly noted in his diary, the deliberate
   isolation of officers from civilian life has confined them to an
   artificial world in which civilians are "unpatriotic, lazy and venal"
   and the armed forces are "industrious, selfless and worthy". As he
   then mused, "What can we achieve with such thoughts?" Yet if the army
   is to continue to command the affection of its citizens it needs to
   change with the times. The generals could not have missed the many
   placards during last month's protests that read "No to sharia, No to
   coups." A drive to weed out corrupt officers launched under General
   Ozkok is an encouraging sign that the army is prepared to be more
   self-critical. But respecting the election result, no matter what it
   is, remains the biggest challenge of all.


   Yulia Tymoshenko wins a second chance

   IT WAS a telling contrast. Just one day after President Vladimir Putin
   more or less appointed himself Russia's next prime minister, the Rada
   (parliament) in Kiev chose in a free vote to make Yulia Tymoshenko
   Ukraine's prime minister. It also exposed the fallacy that post-Soviet
   Slav countries cannot be democratic.

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                         Yes, I have my majority--at last

   Ukraine has been cited by the Kremlin as an example of democratic
   turbulence to be avoided. Russian television has gloated over
   Ukraine's chaotic politics, pointing up the advantages of Russia's
   stable system, in which decisions are taken by the Kremlin and
   rubber-stamped by the Duma. Ukraine's politics have been messy ever
   since the orange revolution of late 2004, when Viktor Yushchenko
   became president.

   Yet for all the disillusion in the orange camp, Ukrainians gave it one
   more chance in the parliamentary election on September 30th. Ms
   Tymoshenko's party did well, taking votes from the Party of the
   Regions led by Viktor Yanukovich, the outgoing prime minister. With
   the pro-Yushchenko Our Ukraine block, Ms Tymoshenko had enough seats
   to push out the Party of the Regions. But it took two months for her
   to form a coalition. Nerves were further frayed on December 11th, when
   the electronic voting system failed to register two votes for Ms
   Tymoshenko. But on December 18th the parliament at last backed Ms
   Tymoshenko, by a one-vote margin.

   The good news is that Ukraine has proved itself to be a genuine
   democracy, with a fierce competition for power and now a functioning
   opposition. As one Russian oligarch notes, Ukrainian politicians have
   tried it all to win power: election-rigging in 2004, money to bribe
   politicians to switch sides in 2005-06 and now democracy.

   Ms Tymoshenko and Mr Yushchenko have been here before. He made her
   prime minister in early 2005, only to fire her months later. She
   blames her failure on the fact that she did not have her own team and
   was undermined by Mr Yushchenko's friends. Now she is in a stronger
   position and has already shaped her own cabinet. She promises judicial
   and economic reform, more open government and an end to murky
   intermediaries in the gas trade with Russia. But some pledges may be
   impossible to deliver.

   Her first challenge is to keep the orange coalition together. The Our
   Ukraine block consists of ten parties. Some of Mr Yushchenko's
   supporters cannot stand Ms Tymoshenko. Mr Yushchenko may feel
   justifiably threatened by her as a potential presidential candidate in
   2009. But to be credible, Ms Tymoshenko must tame her populist
   instincts. In a presidential election she will be judged on her record
   as prime minister. If the orange coalition fails to modernise and
   reform Ukraine, it would betray those who three years ago helped stage
   the orange revolution in the snow of Kiev. It would also set a bad
   example for other ex-Soviet republics--and give even more cause for
   Russian gleefulness.


                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

   The implications of a diplomatic shift in an important oil-rich region


   WHEN God was parcelling out land to the peoples of the earth, the
   Georgians arrived late. But their explanation--that they had been
   drinking in his honour--so delighted God that, according to a Georgian
   creation myth, he granted them the world's choicest spot. The gods
   have indeed favoured Georgia this winter, bestowing a mild one when a
   harsh one might have been disastrous. But the Georgians owe thanks
   also to an earthly benefactor: their neighbour Azerbaijan, whose
   oil-fuelled foreign policy is transforming the volatile but vital
   Caucasus.

   Since the revolution of 2003 that swept Mikhail Saakashvili to
   Georgia's presidency, his yen to join NATO and the European Union has
   infuriated the Kremlin. Last autumn, the Russians imposed postal and
   aviation blockades, alongside the existing embargoes on Georgia's
   water, wine and fruit. Then, with winter approaching, they doubled the
   price for Russian gas--in theory for commercial reasons, but with the
   real aim of taming Mr Saakashvili.

   Yet, for all Mr Saakashvili's high-profile rambunctiousness, the most
   important country in the Caucasus is Azerbaijan. With around 8m
   people, most of them Shia Muslims, it has the biggest population. It
   also has oil and gas, which a consortium led by BP is extracting from
   the Caspian Sea and pumping through new pipelines across Georgia to
   Turkey and beyond. All the Caucasian economies are now picking up,
   after collapsing with the Soviet Union--even corrupt Armenia's,
   dependent though it mostly is on remittances. But the growth created
   by Azerbaijan's second oil boom (the first was 100 years ago) was the
   highest in the world last year: 34.5%, says the finance minister.

   Azerbaijan's president is Ilham Aliev, who inherited the job from
   Heidar, his strongman father. The younger Aliev seemed also to have
   inherited the Caucasian skill of diplomatic balance, eschewing
   Georgian-style pyrotechnics. But that careful equilibrium appeared to
   change in December, when the Russians tried to hike the price of the
   gas that, despite its own reserves, Azerbaijan was itself still
   importing. The idea was apparently to stop Azerbaijan helping the
   Georgians with cheaper supplies.

   "Commercial blackmail," said Mr Aliev. Azerbaijan stopped importing
   Russian gas altogether--and, thanks to the warm weather, gas from
   Azerbaijan seems set to help Georgia through the winter. Elmar
   Mammadyarov, Azerbaijan's foreign minister, says his country is merely
   "taking responsibility as a regional leader." Mr Saakashvili is more
   exuberant: "a geopolitical coup", he says of the new gas arrangements.
   The truth is, Mr Aliev now needs Mr Saakashvili too. Azerbaijan's
   future, and Mr Aliev's power, rest on the new pipelines, which have
   bound their two countries together, and bound both of them to the
   West. In a few years they may also carry Kazakh oil from the other
   side of Caspian, and--perhaps--gas from Turkmenistan. That would undo
   Russia's grip on the supply of Central Asian gas to Europe, and is as
   unpopular an idea in Moscow as it is welcome elsewhere.

   Two things undermine the hope that the fractious Caucasians have
   finally learned to hang together, to their own benefit and that of
   Western energy consumers.

   One is domestic politics. Russia's diplomatic power may be waning, but
   its political model remains popular. Armen Darbinian, a former
   Armenian prime minister, quips that his and other post-Soviet
   countries have become "one-and-a-half party states": a party of power,
   plus others that are basically decorative. In Azerbaijan, opposition
   activists are regularly harassed and locked up. Like Russia, Georgia,
   Armenia and Azerbaijan will all hold presidential polls next year. Mr
   Aliev will surely win his; the whisper in Baku is that his wife will
   take over next. But another whisper is that, in the absence of
   democracy, Islamism is on the rise--encouraged, say some, by Iran to
   the south.

   The Islamists, says Ali Kerimli, a disgruntled oppositionist, curry
   favour with their complaint that "the West sells democracy for oil."
   Others say the threat is fanciful. The call to prayer rings across the
   boutiques and restaurants of downtown Baku, but there are actually
   more hijabs on the streets of London, says Ilgar Ibrahimoglu, an imam.
   All the same, things may change if too much of the oil money goes into
   nepotistic contracts and vanity projects, and too little on
   diversifying the economy and easing the grinding poverty in which many
   Azerbaijanis still live.

   The other big Caucasian danger is war. Russian support for South
   Ossetia and Abkhazia, two enclaves that broke away from Georgia in the
   1990s (see map), is one of Mr Saakashvili's main gripes. Azerbaijan
   also lost a secessionist conflict over Nagorno Karabakh, a part of
   Soviet Azerbaijan mostly populated by Armenians. Mr Aliev periodically
   makes dark threats about retaking Azerbaijan's lost territory by
   force, though a flare-up in Georgia currently looks likelier.

   Mr Saakashvili says Russia's economic embargo "achieved the opposite
   of what was intended", and that Georgia has found new markets.
   Suitably cheered, he this week hosted Mr Aliev and Turkey's Recep
   Tayyip Erdogan, shaking hands on a new railway that will link the
   Caucasus to Europe--but miss out Armenia. Vartan Oskanian, Armenia's
   foreign minister, complains that there is an existing railway across
   Armenian-controlled territory that could be used instead. The railway,
   like the pipelines, symbolises what the countries of the Caucasus can
   achieve together, but also how far apart they remain.


   The Polish government is all tangled up in the past


   OUTSIDERS like to decry Poland's ruling twins, sometimes as buffoons,
   sometimes as bloodthirsty inquisitors. Both characterisations of Lech
   and Jaroslaw Kaczynski, respectively president and prime minister, are
   unfair, but each contains a grain of truth. The twins' foreign policy
   has been inept, sometimes comically so. And, until it was struck down
   by the constitutional court last week, their vetting law seemed not
   only sweeping, but downright sinister.

   Its aim was to screen 700,000 people for past collaboration with the
   communist-era secret police, including not only journalists and
   academics but also some (previously vetted) anti-communist
   politicians, such as Bronislaw Geremek, a former foreign minister. Mr
   Geremek refused to complete another vetting declaration, thereby
   risking his seat in the European Parliament. This prompted huge
   criticism: Daniel Cohn-Bendit, a Green colleague, said it was like
   "ordering a Jew in a concentration camp to submit a statement that he
   hasn't collaborated with the Nazis."

   The Kaczynskis' initial reaction was to counter-attack. At one point
   they and their allies even seemed to challenge the constitutional
   court's legitimacy. In a bizarre intervention on the day of its
   ruling, a deputy from the ruling Law and Justice party, Arkadiusz
   Mularczyk, demanded a delay, producing hurriedly obtained
   secret-police files on some of the judges. Now the government has
   accepted the court's ruling, which guts the central provisions of the
   law. Journalists and academics are excluded, and the penalty for
   non-compliance--a ten-year ban from a person's profession--was also
   struck down.

   This has avoided a constitutional crisis, but left the question of
   what to do with Poland's millions of locked-up secret-police files,
   which occupy 80km (50 miles) of shelf-space. Secrecy allows the wicked
   to pose as blameless, and offers much scope for blackmail. The
   emerging consensus is to replace the vetting law with an open-archive
   policy. One idea is to allow access by everyone to everything. Yet the
   files contain much private information, accurate or not, on things
   like medical conditions or sexual indiscretions.

   So a more likely answer will be to open the files to public scrutiny
   with non-political material expunged. But by whom? Some suspect that
   the whole subject will now get bogged down in the question of
   reforming the management of the archives, delaying embarrassing
   revelations for many years.

   Behind the row lie some sharply different views of history. The
   Kaczynskis believe that, after communism collapsed in 1989, the
   transition to democracy was botched--maybe even sabotaged--by elements
   from the old regime. They yearn to bust the crony-capitalist
   arrangements that have grown up between business, officialdom, the
   media and leftist politicians. Mr Geremek's 20-year stint in the
   opposition counts for little: how, critics ask, did he get the juicy
   job of running the Polish Cultural Centre in Paris in 1960, at the
   height of the cold war, without having ties to Polish (or Soviet)
   intelligence?

   Others say that the Kaczynskis themselves are prisoners of the
   suspicious, confrontational mindset engendered by totalitarianism.
   Justice is one thing; revenge another. Since 1989 Poland has tamed
   inflation and built a thriving market economy. Now it needs to
   modernise its public services and play a constructive role in Europe.
   Ending the heated controversy over the vetting law offers the best
   chance of concentrating on that.


   After one year, Romano Prodi's government looks surprisingly stable

   GOVERNMENTS elected for five years seldom brag about surviving for
   one. But Romano Prodi's centre-left coalition, which will mark its
   first birthday next week, has good reason to celebrate.

   If ever an infant needed incubation, it was Mr Prodi's administration
   a year ago. His "Union" spans an ideological range from neo-Trotskyist
   to quasi-Thatcherite. It began life with a majority of just one
   elected representative in the Senate, the upper house, which has equal
   power with the Chamber of Deputies. In February it almost came to
   grief over foreign policy, scraping through a confidence vote thanks
   to a rebellion by two opposition senators. Yet three months later it
   looks quite safe.

   This week, the European Commission raised its forecast for Italian
   economic growth in 2007 to 1.9%. It said it expected Italy's
   once-troublesome budget deficit to come in at only 2.1% of GDP, well
   under the euro-area ceiling of 3%. And it predicted that the country's
   debt burden would be trimmed by 1.8 points from 2006, to 105% of GDP.

   There are three secrets to Mr Prodi's survival, besides the improving
   economy. The first is technical. Not all Italian senators are elected.
   Seven are life senators. Of the five who attend regularly, four
   usually vote with the centre-left, giving the government a bigger
   majority than it appears to have on paper.

   The second reason for Mr Prodi's survival is the similar durability of
   his arch-enemy, Silvio Berlusconi, as the centre-right opposition
   leader. The media tycoon's five scandal-ridden years in office, which
   ended in his narrow electoral defeat last spring, traumatised the
   centre-left. If there is one thing that stops its otherwise querulous
   leaders from bringing down the government, it is the horror of being
   seen to usher Mr Berlusconi back into power.

   One of Mr Berlusconi's own allies is helping to avoid that. Since the
   election, Pier Ferdinando Casini, leader of the Union of Christian
   Democrats (UDC), has partly detached his party from Mr Berlusconi's
   House of Liberties alliance, backing the government on causes it
   supports, such as keeping a military presence in Afghanistan. The UDC
   leader dislikes Mr Berlusconi's more confrontational tactics. But he
   also wants to replace him, and calculates that the longer the
   government stays in office, the less likely it is that Mr Berlusconi
   will be the centre-right's candidate at the next election, due in
   2011, by which time il Cavaliere will be 74.

   Mr Prodi's third secret is that most essential political attribute:
   luck. He came to office spooked by a widening budget deficit into
   thinking the fiscal situation was dire. He and his finance minister,
   Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa, set about passing a belt-tightening
   mini-budget and then a full 2006 budget that raised taxes and, to a
   lesser extent, cut spending. Yet it soon became clear that cash was
   pouring into the treasury. This was partly because the economy was
   benefiting from a Europe-wide upswing, but it was also because one-off
   measures passed under Mr Berlusconi proved to have enduring effects,
   by bringing to light previously undeclared sources of tax revenue.

   Indeed, Mr Prodi is under pressure from all directions over how to use
   the windfall. The European Commission wants Italy's still formidable
   debt to be cut. The left of his coalition wants to reduce the big gap
   in Italy between rich and poor. The right would prefer to use the cash
   to cut taxes. The resulting tensions could yet sink Mr Prodi's
   unexpectedly durable coalition. But, as he will recall from the
   painful euro-qualifying 1990s, there are worse problems than having
   too much money.


   What strict national rules on shopping hours and sales reveal about
   European views of competition



   ARE you glum about brashly commercial holiday seasons? Annoyed when
   winter sales start earlier every year? Then Charlemagne has the place
   for you. Pick the right European country, and no sales pitches need
   disrupt your festive cheer. Try France, where sales will by law begin
   only on January 9th. Or Belgium: not only are sales banned before
   January 3rd but, under "pre-sales" rules, for six weeks beforehand
   shops cannot announce price reductions, lest somebody jumps the gun.

   During the twice-yearly pre-sales blackouts (there are also summer
   sales) a hundred inspectors from the Belgian economics ministry scour
   the country for advertisements, window stickers or price tags that
   even hint at discounts. A Prohibition-style speakeasy culture has
   sprung up in response. Gambits include putting question-marks on price
   tags and advertising "friendly prices". Chic boutiques in Brussels
   telephone favoured customers or send them "privilege cards", inviting
   them to pop in for an early visit. Controls must be "extremely severe"
   to ensure that the rules stick, explains Robert Geurts of the
   economics ministry, who glories in the title of director-general for
   regulation and organisation of the market. Inspectors receive many
   tips by telephone as rival shopkeepers denounce each other.

   If all this sounds fundamentally illiberal, that is because it is. One
   Eurocrat suggests that a key ancestor of many continental bans on
   unfair trading is a German law from the mid-1930s that sought to stamp
   out what Nazi officials called aggressive "Jewish" conduct among
   shopkeepers. But the laws also carry more than a whiff of distrust of
   capitalism itself. Belgian parliamentary papers from the late 1960s
   describe indignantly how some shops "deliberately" sell products at a
   loss to attract customers who might buy other goods at full price, a
   ploy referred to as "destructive" competition. Such loss-leaders were
   banned in Belgium in 1971, along with any selling below cost or at
   "extremely reduced" profit margins. This has kept the lawyers busy as
   the courts argue over what extremely reduced might mean. And that is
   why sales in Belgium are such a big deal: though offering discounts is
   legal at other times of the year, the sales are the only time when
   Belgian shopkeepers may sell goods at a loss.

   In Belgium, you cannot even tell customers to "buy one and get one
   free", as the maximum discount for multiple sales is 33%, or buy two
   and get a third thrown in. And sales are reserved for the "seasonal
   renewal" of stock. That means no goods may be specially bought in for
   the sales, and things deemed non-seasonal may not be put in sales. Cue
   more court cases: judges have established that sofas are seasonal but
   antiques are not.

   To distant observers, all this could add up to a picture of a country,
   indeed a continent, that is keener on the smothering embrace of state
   control than on the rigours of capitalism. Belgian shops are mostly
   obliged to close by 8pm every day; Sunday opening is rare. Price
   controls on bread were abolished only in 2004. Yet the true picture is
   both messier and more revealing of the forces that really hold Europe
   back.

   Reforms are possible in Europe, now a thoroughly capitalist continent.
   It is just that vested interests and coalition politics make the pace
   of change glacial. A European Commission proposal to liberalise sales
   promotions expired in 2005, killed by national governments. Yet in the
   past decade Germany and the Netherlands have trimmed or scrapped rules
   governing opening hours and trading practices. France still fixes
   sales periods and bans selling at a loss. But those rules have just
   been proposed for the scrapheap by a state-sponsored committee.

   Belgium has a pretty dynamic business sector (at least in
   Dutch-speaking Flanders). It has pulled off some quite big reforms
   over the years, despite a national inclination for cosy compromise.
   You should have tried the 1970s, says Mr Geurts cheerfully: "We really
   had price controls. There was a real desire to control everything."
   The government has just published a report by a lawyer, Herman De
   Bauw, urging the abolition of several obviously daft restrictions,
   including pre-sales blackout periods. Although he wrote much of the
   existing law, Mr Geurts himself admits that it is "showing its age".

   The power of vested interests

   But there will be opposition, led by the small shops and businesses
   that benefit from the weirdest trading laws. The pre-sales blackout on
   advertising discounts is a prime example. It was dreamt up in the
   1980s by centre-right politicians fearful that small businesses could
   not compete if big chains were allowed to go after bargain-hunters in
   an unregulated free-for-all. The blackout forbids publicising price
   cuts, but there is no matching ban on giving a customer a discount in
   the run-up to the sales, so long as they ask for one. It is no
   coincidence that haggling is possible in small shops, but harder in
   chain stores.

   Rules on fixed sales periods and selling below cost have come about in
   a similar way. Their target is explicit: big chains that are often
   accused in parliament of plotting to drive small businesses into
   extinction, so as to establish monopolies and raise prices at their
   ease. As the De Bauw report notes, this is a dubious argument. Fierce
   competition, it says, not monopolistic pricing, marks out Belgium's
   supermarkets.

   Belgians, like many other Europeans, appear genuinely attached to town
   centres filled with small shops, rather than the same old chains. Nor
   is there any great consumer pressure for longer shopping hours: many
   stores shut long before the legal closing time. Yet when Belgium's
   shopkeepers use their political clout to hold everybody to the same
   starting date for sales, or ban each other from setting their own
   prices, they are killing jobs and hurting customers. No wonder
   capitalism has such a mixed reputation in so much of Europe. Often it
   is not markets that are lacking, but free markets. And that is
   something to feel truly glum about.


   The coalition at last gives up the ghost and prepares for a new
   election


   THE Polish government has imploded. The ruling Law and Justice Party
   has decided to press for an election this autumn, perhaps as early as
   October. The coalition's demise has been long drawn-out and it will
   not be mourned. But the antics of Poland's politicians may not
   encourage high voter turn-out--and even an election might not bring
   much improvement.

   The three coalition parties are busily blaming each other for bringing
   the government down. The prime minister, Jaroslaw Kaczynski, has now
   summarily dismissed all four ministers from the junior parties,
   including a deputy prime minister. Their replacements have improved
   the government "both intellectually and morally", he declared. He
   started the ball rolling a month ago by sacking Andrzej Lepper,
   another deputy prime minister and agriculture minister who heads the
   Self-Defence party and was implicated in a bribery scandal. Next to go
   was the interior minister, sacked for allegedly leaking information
   against Mr Lepper, pitting both men against the zealous justice
   minister, Zbigniew Ziobro.

   The coalition was never a dream ticket. Law and Justice, a party set
   up by Mr Kaczynski and his twin brother Lech, who is now president,
   won the 2005 election on an anti-communist, anti-corruption platform.
   This sat uneasily with its alliance with Self-Defence, best known for
   cronyism and murky business connections. The other junior partner, the
   League of Polish Families, attracted ridicule for such acts as seeking
   an investigation of "Teletubbies", a children's TV programme, because
   one of the characters might be a homosexual.

   Law and Justice had some good ideas, but their implementation was
   messy. Its main goal was to clean up the sleaze of the previous
   (ex-communist) Socialist government. But the party resorted to
   unappealing methods. In trying to uproot all traces of links to the
   old communist regime, it created a situation in which loyalty was
   prized above competence. Earlier this year, a colleague of Lech
   Kaczynski's from his time as Warsaw mayor replaced Leszek Balcerowicz,
   widely seen as the creator of Poland's modern economy, as governor of
   the central bank. The independence of the judiciary and the civil
   service have both been undermined. A negative verdict by the
   constitutional court on a vetting law was attacked by a Law and
   Justice deputy who, it seems, was asked to find compromising material
   on the judges.

   Not everything the government has done is bad. It shut the old
   military-intelligence service, which became a cosy meeting-place for
   ex-communist spooks. With the help of a good regional minister, its
   use of money from Brussels, worth some EUR67 billion ($90 billion)
   between now and 2013, has become more efficient. The finance minister
   has struggled valiantly to keep Poland's budget deficit under control,
   resisting the spending demands of her colleagues. Yet on balance the
   government's record is poor. The cabinet is a hopeless lot: the only
   two members with international standing, the foreign and defence
   ministers, were both forced out to be replaced by Kaczynski cronies.
   Poland's relations with her European Union partners have been scratchy
   at best.

   Sadly, the opposition is little better. On the right, Civic Platform
   often lapses into a testy defensiveness rather than promoting its own
   policies. It has a lead in the polls, but would need a partner to form
   a government. Despite also being on the right, Law and Justice is an
   unlikely choice on personality grounds. The alternative may be the
   Democratic Left Alliance, successor to the Socialists. Yet though
   revamped by a former president, Aleksander Kwasniewski, and led by a
   media-savvy 33-year-old, it remains taboo to both centre-right
   parties. Its support is needed for a two-thirds majority to dissolve
   parliament, however.

   Some observers fret that the outcome could once more put Law and
   Justice just ahead of Civic Platform, leaving it to scrabble for a
   humbler partner among smaller parties. That might be good for the
   Kaczynskis, but not for Poland--nor for the EU.


   The most prominent Muslim minister causes a stir at home and abroad


   SHE was dressed in Dior for the dinner in honour of Nicolas Sarkozy at
   the White House, and seated at the king's table for the one in
   Morocco. She was in China with the French president last week, and at
   his side again this week for a state visit to Algeria. No other
   minister seems to follow the globe-trotting Mr Sarkozy as much as
   Rachida Dati, his justice minister, and none is so scrutinised by the
   French media.

                                                                  Eyevine
                                                                  Eyevine

                             The minister for justice, and foreign travel

   The first Muslim to hold such a top government job, and a woman to
   boot, Ms Dati has become emblematic of an effort to open up the French
   elite. This makes her controversial judicial reform a test of the new
   France in more ways than one.

   Ms Dati's backstory, as recounted in her recent book, "Je Vous Fais
   Juges" ("You be the Judge"), reads more like that of Barack Obama than
   the typical French minister. One of 12 children raised in a council
   flat by an illiterate Algerian mother and a Moroccan stonemason, she
   rose and qualified as a magistrate through a mix of tenacity,
   pushiness and hard work, including night shifts as a nursing
   auxiliary.

   She was adopted by Mr Sarkozy when he was interior minister (she had
   written to him cold, and demanded a meeting) and has worked in his
   team ever since. Since she was appointed rather than elected, Mr
   Sarkozy's centre-right party is seeking to boost her standing by
   putting her top of the list for the next municipal elections in the
   bourgeois 7th arrondissement of Paris. Ms Dati's ascent prompts as
   much admiration as it does resentment. Her appointment did not prevent
   another eruption of street violence in the heavily Muslim banlieues
   last month. In the same week that rioters torched cars, the country's
   justices also took to the streets during a strike to protest against
   her plans to amalgamate courts. Robert Badinter, a Socialist senator
   and former justice minister, said he had never seen "such anxiety and
   bitterness" from magistrates.

   Unpopular as it may be, the reform makes sense. The geography of the
   French court system has not changed in nearly half a century, despite
   huge population shifts. In largely rural areas, there is a tribunal de
   grande instance (county court) for fewer than 150,000 people; in big
   cities, one such court serves over 550,000. In Lorraine in eastern
   France, ten magistrates' courts employ a full-time judge without the
   workload to justify it, and two have none at all. By contrast, some
   city courts have vast backlogs. Ms Dati plans to close 178 of the 473
   magistrates' courts, and 23 county courts, and redistribute staff.

   Mr Sarkozy has made clear his desire to shake up the court system to
   speed up decisions, improve access and end the isolation of some
   investigating judges. An inquiry into one of France's most egregious
   recent miscarriages of justice--the imprisonment of 13 people
   wrongfully accused of running a paedophile ring in Outreau--said one
   cause was the fact that the investigating judge was working entirely
   alone.

   Naturally, magistrates affected by closures are enraged. Members of
   parliament, even those from Mr Sarkozy's party, have been fiercely
   critical of Ms Dati's plans too, accusing her of striking courts off
   the map without consultation. There also seems to be genuine concern
   about Ms Dati's management style. In her short time in office, more
   than half a dozen members of her staff have quit.

   The trouble for critics is that questions about Ms Dati's competence
   collide with France's awkward new political correctness. Charges of
   racism are already in the air. Dominique Sopo, head of SOS Racisme, an
   anti-discrimination group, says hostility to her reform is because she
   is "young, a woman, and of North African origin. Unfortunately, this
   profile creates resentment among a French elite made up of white men
   over 55."

   Still, other female members of the government too are said to have
   been put out by Ms Dati's prominence, not least the Senegalese-born
   Rama Yade, junior foreign minister for human rights, who was excluded
   from Mr Sarkozy's trip to China.

   Mr Sarkozy has stood solidly by Ms Dati throughout. Having publicly
   admired the ethnic diversity of the Bush administration in America, Mr
   Sarkozy is commendably keen to reproduce it in France. Indeed, given
   her iconic value, he cannot afford to let her fail.


   From Vladimir Putin (front) to Dmitry Medvedev (behind): a very
   Russian way to change the political guard

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP


   VLADIMIR PUTIN likes to surprise. But this time he has excelled
   himself, making a surprise out of something that is not surprising at
   all. Dmitry Medvedev, a 42-year-old lawyer chosen by Mr Putin to be
   Russia's next president, was always a front-runner. That Mr Putin may
   become his prime minister was also floated two months ago. Yet nobody
   expected Mr Putin simply to do what he had said.

   The choice of Mr Medvedev was first flagged in November 2005, when the
   publicity-shy head of the Kremlin administration was entrusted with
   billions of dollars for social projects and promoted to deputy prime
   minister. A day later Mr Medvedev, in his first big speech, promised a
   better life for ordinary Russians. A year on, when he spoke at the
   World Economic Forum in Davos, he was favoured by 35% of Russians for
   president. "Here was born the future president of Russia," somebody
   scratched in the doorway of Mr Medvedev's old apartment block in St
   Petersburg.

   But then Mr Putin, as befits a former KGB officer, started covering
   his tracks. He raised Sergei Ivanov, the defence minister and another
   ex-KGB man, to the same position as Mr Medvedev. Television mentions
   of Mr Ivanov shot up; soon 37% of Russians said they were ready to
   vote for him. Mr Ivanov was more in tune with Mr Putin's anti-Western
   sabre-rattling. Yet on the day that a leading Russian newspaper tipped
   Mr Ivanov as next prime minister, Mr Putin pulled off another surprise
   by appointing the little-known Viktor Zubkov. He surprised again by
   announcing that he would lead the pro-Kremlin United Russia party in
   the parliamentary election on December 2nd. He suggested that a big
   United Russia win might tempt him to become prime minister, perhaps
   under a pliable Mr Zubkov.

   Then the infighting in the Kremlin started to get out of hand and Mr
   Putin returned to his original plan of making Mr Medvedev president.
   This brought both surprise and relief. Mr Putin's talk of enemies of
   the people and his beating up and jailing of demonstrators were
   followed by the arrest of a liberal deputy finance minister. In the
   circumstances, the choice of a soft-spoken, civilian lawyer seemed a
   palm of peace. Compared with Mr Ivanov and Mr Zubkov, he looks
   liberal. The reaction was that it could have been much worse.
   Germany's Angela Merkel, who criticised Russia's parliamentary
   election, telephoned to say she could work well with Mr Medvedev. But
   it is not Mr Medvedev she may have to work with. For the next day, in
   a final surprise, Mr Medvedev invited Mr Putin to be his prime
   minister.

   The truth is that Mr Medvedev is not an independent politician, but an
   extension of Mr Putin. He comes from Mr Putin's native St Petersburg
   and studied law at the same university. He worked alongside Mr Putin
   in St Petersburg's mayoral office and has not left his side since. In
   Moscow he ran Mr Putin's presidential campaign and chaired Gazprom,
   the gas giant. He was Mr Putin's chief of staff and legal consigliere.
   He is 13 years younger and a few inches shorter, but also a lot less
   confident.

   Mr Medvedev does not come from the siloviki, ex-members of the
   security services who control so much of Mr Putin's Russia; his
   loyalty to Mr Putin is personal. He belongs to what was once the
   Soviet intelligentsia, and is more interested in business than
   rockets. He did not support the arrest of Mikhail Khodorkovsky, an
   oligarch who challenged Mr Putin, and even questioned the prosecutor's
   tactics. Nor does he subscribe to the Kremlin's notion of "sovereign
   democracy". Democracy, he has said, does not need qualifications.

   Yet Andrei Illarionov, a former adviser to Mr Putin and now one of his
   fiercest critics, says it is ridiculous to call Mr Medvedev a liberal.
   When Mr Medvedev was the Kremlin chief of staff, he banned members of
   the administration from talking to the press. Mr Illarionov, who
   frequently broke this order, was reprimanded. The danger, Mr
   Illarionov says, is that Mr Medvedev may try to overcompensate for his
   lack of a security background.

   If Mr Medvedev has liberal instincts, the best way to show them would
   be to run a free and fair presidential election. So far, his big
   selling point is that he is really a Putin-2. The day after he was
   anointed, Mr Medvedev made a televised statement. Reading from an
   autocue, and even imitating Mr Putin's voice and style, he declared:
   "I consider it of utmost importance for our country to keep Vladimir
   Vladimirovich Putin in the highest post of executive power, the post
   of head of government of the Russian Federation."

   The Kremlin line is that the teamwork between Mr Putin as prime
   minister and Mr Medvedev as president will guarantee stability,
   creating a good base for more liberal reforms. Mr Putin has hinted
   that more state companies will, sooner or later, be privatised. So
   far, this has sounded more like a redistribution of property, rather
   than liberal reform.

   As for Mr Putin, he seems still to be keeping his options open. If he
   becomes prime minister it is hard to imagine him answering to Mr
   Medvedev. Whatever the form, Mr Putin will be more popular and more
   powerful than his protégé. Under the constitution, the president has
   control over the army and the security services, but this could easily
   be changed by a parliamentary vote. In any event Mr Putin is unlikely
   to part with power. More surprises could be in store, even the revival
   of a once-touted plan for a union with Belarus that might let Mr Putin
   stay president.

   The Kremlin's machinations have revealed a simple truth: that the
   authoritarian system created by Mr Putin in the past eight years does
   not allow an orderly transition of power from one elite to another.
   Kirill Rogov, a political analyst, points out that elections, which in
   a democratic society act as a mechanism for rotating power, have in
   Russia become a mechanism for preserving it.

   This reverses the biggest achievement of Boris Yeltsin's short-lived,
   imperfect democracy: a peaceful transfer of power. The manner in which
   Mr Yeltsin handed power to Mr Putin in December 1999 was not ideal,
   but he did step down and let somebody else take charge. Mr Putin seems
   unable to repeat that. Indeed, so as to hang on to power, he may be
   prepared to undermine the institution of a strong presidency that he
   helped to create.

   For all the talk of stability, Russia is in some ways less stable than
   it was. Mr Putin has been lucky to enjoy an oil boom that filled up
   state coffers and fanned economic growth. But the underlying economy
   has not been diversified or restructured. Inflation is running in
   double digits, domestic gas and electricity prices need to be raised
   and the outlook for the world economy is suddenly gloomier. Yet the
   biggest danger for Russia remains political.

   Russia has traditionally had only one centre of power: the Kremlin.
   There is but one precedent for a strong prime minister and a weak head
   of state. This was 100 years ago when Pyotr Stolypin was prime
   minister under Tsar Nicholas II. Stolypin dealt ruthlessly with
   political protesters to push through reforms to make Russia a leading
   European power. His catch-phrase was: give Russia 20 years of peace,
   and you will not recognise it. But it all ended badly. Stolypin was
   assassinated, Nicholas II murdered by the Bolsheviks--and Russia
   plunged into 73 years of communism.


   The real crisis in Naples is about governance as much as rubbish

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                                      Waste not, want not

   GARBAGE littered on city streets can be not only unhealthy, but also
   politically hazardous. It reminds voters of the fragility of
   civilisation--and can prompt them to turn on their elected
   representatives. Uncollected rubbish helped to undermine the Labour
   government of James Callaghan in Britain's "winter of discontent" in
   1978-79.

   So it is at first sight surprising that Romano Prodi's centre-left
   government should have let the situation in Campania, the region round
   Naples, get so smelly. By January 8th some 60,000 tonnes of garbage
   were piled up in the streets, roughly 5,000 tonnes of it in Naples
   itself. At a rubbish dump outside the city, residents opposed to its
   reopening were fighting nightly battles with the police.

   This crisis is as much about governance as about garbage. It did not
   blow up overnight. Campania has been plagued by refuse trouble for 14
   years. Almost EUR8 billion ($11 billion) has been spent on it. The
   region's garbage collectors stopped their rounds on December 21st,
   because the dumps in and around Naples were full, and an incinerator
   that should have been ready was not. Both developments were wholly
   foreseeable. The centre-left mayor of Naples, Rosa Russo Jervolino,
   warned Mr Prodi of the looming crisis a year ago. Yet nothing was
   done.

   The underlying problem is that Campania has no modern incinerators.
   This is because plans to build them have met determined, and often
   aggressive, opposition from local people. Their protests are
   frequently backed, if not orchestrated, by Campania's powerful
   organised-crime group, the Camorra, which makes succulent profits from
   disposing of waste in illegal dumps (see [3]article). But many
   Neapolitans are genuinely concerned about emissions from the proposed
   incinerators. There has been criticism of their design; and, since
   barely one-eighth of the city's garbage is separated before it is
   collected, there are fears that toxic waste could be burnt along with
   harmless stuff.

   Mr Prodi first sent in the army to clear the garbage from outside
   schools, so that they could reopen after the holiday. Then on January
   8th he announced a set of new measures. He appointed a special
   commissioner, a former national police chief, Gianni De Gennaro, with
   sweeping powers to tackle the garbage mountain. He was given a 120-day
   mandate and guaranteed continued help from the army. Mr Prodi also
   promised three new incinerators and "enough" new landfill sites. He
   gave local authorities four months to bring in segregated collection.
   Otherwise, they will be put under special administration.

   Mr Prodi had earlier said that he intended to solve the Naples garbage
   problem permanently. His plan could do this--if it is carried out. But
   some scepticism is surely in order. Mr De Gennaro is at least the
   seventh Campanian "refuse tsar". The prime minister offered no
   deadline for completing the incinerators, which take some three years
   to build. Nor did he say how he proposed to overcome local opposition
   to the creation of dumps, which can be fiercer even than resistance to
   the building of incinerators.

   At least one measure announced by Mr Prodi will have an immediate
   impact. Other Italian regions are to be allowed to take some of
   Campania's waste. But this is at odds with both Italian and European
   Union legislation (the European Commission is already threatening
   legal proceedings against Italy over Naples's garbage). Mr Prodi
   called it a short-term expedient to allow longer-term measures to be
   enacted. But nothing has proved more elusive in Campania's protracted
   waste crisis than long-term solutions.


   Not enough help from the neighbours


   WINTER in Albania, Europe's second-poorest country (after Moldova), is
   a wretched season, bringing power-cuts of 12 hours a day in the cities
   and 20 hours in the countryside. Hence the brisk import each autumn of
   portable oil-fired generators: without their own private electricity
   supply, the thousands of small businesses that drive the economy would
   collapse.

   This year the electricity shortage is worse than usual. A drought has
   severely reduced water levels in dams that feed the elderly
   hydro-power plants along the Drin river in the north of the country.
   Thirty years ago these were the pride of the late Enver Hoxha's
   Stalinist regime: Albania even exported electricity to Greece and
   Yugoslavia.

   Now the situation is reversed: electricity demand is growing at almost
   three times the European average as more Albanians move to the cities
   and furnish their homes with dishwashers, tumble-dryers and electric
   heaters--paid for by remittances from relatives working abroad. KESh,
   the inefficient and corrupt state electricity utility, struggles to
   send bills to, and collect money from, people living without addresses
   or electricity meters in squatter suburbs around Tirana.

   Albania used to get by with free or heavily subsidised electricity
   imports from Italy, its friendliest neighbour, and with cheap supplies
   from Bulgaria, the region's biggest exporter. But last month two
   Chernobyl-era units were shut down at Kozloduy, Bulgaria's
   nuclear-power complex on the Danube, as a condition of Bulgaria's
   accession to the European Union. That has led to Bulgaria cutting
   electricity exports by more than two-thirds--and so to soaring energy
   prices in the Balkans. Meanwhile, Albania's electricity shortage is
   showing up in slower economic growth and less foreign investment than
   elsewhere in the western Balkans.

   In an attempt to find a solution, the World Bank, Italian energy
   companies and private consultancies have come up with a stream of
   proposals to modernise hydro-power plants, reduce transmission losses
   and build new power stations close to fast-growing towns in the centre
   and south of the country. But only one large project has made
   progress. After several years of foot-dragging by the energy ministry,
   an Italian company has won a tender to build a 100-megawatt oil-fired
   plant at Vlore in Albania's south. It should start producing
   electricity in 2010.

   With local elections due on February 18th, Sali Berisha, the prime
   minister, is under attack for letting the lights go out. Voters are
   poised to punish his Democratic Party for not delivering on its
   promise at the general election in 2005 to clean up KESh and provide
   cheap, year-round power. Last month he made a joint appeal with Sergey
   Stanishev, his Bulgarian counterpart, for units 3 and 4 at Kozloduy to
   stay open (units 1 and 2 are already closed; units 5 and 6 are more
   modern and safer). Bulgarians argue in Brussels that Balkan countries
   need as much energy as the region can produce if they are to grow
   faster.

   Andris Piebalgs, the EU energy commissioner, is not convinced. On
   February 1st he told Mr Berisha that instead of teaming up with the
   Bulgarians to demand special treatment he should do more to sort
   things out at home. This was not quite the pre-election response Mr
   Berisha had been hoping for.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   Italian anti-Americanism costs Romano Prodi his job 

   THE parliamentary tornado that ripped through Romano Prodi's
   centre-left government on February 21st, prompting its leader to
   resign, showed how dangerous it can be for a European government to be
   seen to be backing the Bush administration. The same day Tony Blair,
   George Bush's closest ally, announced the departure of some British
   troops from Iraq, Italy's prime minister was humiliated in a crucial
   parliamentary vote, centring on Italy's involvement in Afghanistan.

   As President Giorgio Napolitano began consulting party representatives
   on a possible replacement for the prime minister, the cause of Mr
   Prodi's troubles looked more significant than their immediate result.
   Rather than forcing Italy's long-suffering voters back to the polls
   (this was the 61st government since 1945) the president was expected
   to try for a cabinet headed by someone more widely acceptable in
   parliament, or even for a remodelled Prodi administration. The
   outgoing coalition's core parties quickly said they would support Mr
   Prodi again.

   Mr Prodi actually won the vote in Italy's Senate by 158 votes to 136
   with 24 abstentions. But abstentions count as votes against, so the
   formal result was a two-vote defeat. It was not, technically, a
   confidence vote, so Mr Prodi did not need to step down. But his
   foreign minister, Massimo D'Alema, had just said that defeat would
   mean it was time for "everyone to go home". Exultant representatives
   of the centre-right, which is led by the media proprietor and former
   prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, pounced on his undertaking. Holding
   aloft a copy of a newspaper headlining the pledge, Mr Berlusconi's
   chief whip in the upper house cried: "There is no Prodi government any
   more. The Prodi government has fallen in this chamber." When news
   reached the lower house, the Chamber of Deputies, scuffles broke out
   between government and opposition. Over a hundred people gathered
   outside Mr Prodi's office chanting "Resign, resign".

   Behind the defeat lay profound divisions over foreign policy within Mr
   Prodi's government. In recent weeks two largely separate issues have
   become perilously entwined. One is Italy's contribution to
   Afghanistan's International Security Assistance Force (ISAF). Since Mr
   Prodi pulled Italian forces out of Iraq last year, the left-most
   members of his sprawling, nine-party coalition, which includes Greens,
   Christian centrists, ex-communists and radical leftists, have
   increasingly focused their attention on ISAF. Though the mission has a
   United Nations mandate, it is NATO-run, jarring the Italian left's
   strong pacifist and anti-American sensibilities. Three ministers
   walked out of the cabinet rather than sign off extra funding for the
   Afghan force, which has yet to be endorsed by parliament.

   Amid growing concern about Italy's wobbly commitment to ISAF, the
   ambassadors of six other participants published an open letter,
   appealing for continued support. That may have backfired: Mr D'Alema,
   a staunch backer of ISAF, angrily dismissed the move as interference
   by outsiders in Italy's democracy. The Chamber of Deputies, where the
   government has a bigger majority, was due to start debating the
   funding on February 26th; it must go to the Senate by mid-March. That
   is why a reckoning in parliament on the government's foreign policy
   had become urgently needed.

   The day before the Senate vote, Mr Prodi sealed a deal with the
   majority of the doubters in his camp by promising to use a meeting on
   Afghanistan in Rome, due by May, to prepare a future peace conference
   (to which some on the left would like to invite the Taliban). But this
   proved too little for two far-left senators, who withheld their votes.

   They and other radicals were equally exercised by the government's
   readiness to agree to the expansion of an American military base at
   Vicenza in northern Italy. On February 17th, some 70,000
   people--including leading figures in the governing coalition--marched
   in protest at the plan. Mr Prodi swiftly declared that he did not
   intend changing a 50 year-old defence policy, based on the three
   pillars of the European Union, the UN and NATO.

   Fine words. But barely a week later, that once-uncontroversial
   approach to Italy's alliances had ended in disaster. The implications
   go beyond foreign policy. The outgoing government had an urgent
   domestic reform agenda. A crisis like this, even if it leads to a
   remodelled Prodi government, raises big questions once more over the
   ability of a humbled and disconcerted centre-left to push through the
   painful changes that Italy needs.


   The biggest fault in Italian education is that there are too many old
   teachers

   THE Bar Cristal, beneath an elevated section of Rome's inner ringway,
   caters mostly to travellers from the nearby bus and rail stations. But
   by 7.30am most days, it is packed with teachers, many of whom have
   come from as far away as Naples. They are part of Italy's army of
   150,000 casual teachers, waiting for a call to teach in a
   short-staffed school. Darting between classrooms, they tack together
   take-home pay of EUR1,100 ($1,500) a month.

   Earlier this month Romano Prodi's centre-left government enacted a law
   to give full-time jobs to a third of these freelance educators. The
   plan is to absorb all of them by 2009. This reflects a wish to improve
   the consistency and standard of teaching. But it also responds to
   recent incidents suggesting Italy's teachers have lost control.

   Scenes videoed on mobile phones and posted on the internet have shown
   a 12-year-old girl performing oral sex in class, a teacher with a gun
   at his head and a handicapped pupil being roughed up by his
   classmates. In another case, a 16-year-old boy threw himself to his
   death, apparently because of taunting over his alleged homosexuality.
   Teachers argue that such incidents are untypical. But few deny that
   the education system has big problems--and that its shortcomings are
   one cause of Italy's struggling economy.

   Since 2000 successive reports from the OECD's Programme for
   International Student Assessment have shattered the belief that
   Italian schools are among Europe's best. The most recent put them near
   the bottom of the heap. In maths Italy's 15-year-olds were
   outperformed by their peers in all but three OECD countries. Almost a
   third were "unable to display the minimum level of mathematics
   proficiency needed to succeed in their professional and private life".
   The share of young adults with essential qualifications was far below
   the OECD average.

   No similarly exhaustive comparison has been done for tertiary
   education. But that so many young Italians study abroad, and so few
   young foreigners (2% of all foreign students) do in Italy, points to
   equally low standards at university level.

   The teachers' unions like to stress Italy's relatively low public
   spending on education as a share of GDP. Scant investment may hold
   back the universities: spending on core tertiary education is 30%
   below the OECD average. But it is rising per student, as a low birth
   rate reduces the number of matriculations. As for schools, spending
   per primary- and secondary-school pupil is actually above the OECD
   average. The OECD suggests that its allocation is faulty, with too
   much cash going to a "large number of comparatively poorly paid
   teachers", who work long hours in schools with low teacher-student
   ratios.

   But there is another explanation. As in much of Italy, a logjam blocks
   young entrants. This explains the morning crowd at the Bar Cristal. It
   may lie behind the breakdown of discipline in classrooms. In 2001 90%
   of upper secondary teachers were over 40, compared with an OECD
   average of two-thirds. A mere 0.1% were under 30 (against 11% in all
   rich countries).

   The incorporation of tens of thousands of youthful casual teachers
   will be a step in the right direction. But matters are worse in
   universities, where patronage, cronyism and secure tenure are the
   rule. A study by Corriere della Sera in January showed that a full 30%
   of top academics and 10% of lecturers were over 65. Only nine of the
   country's 18,651 senior academics are under 35, compared with 7% in
   America and fully 16% in Britain. In education, as in far too many
   walks of Italian life, it is grey power that rules.


   Ukraine is in political crisis again. Is there a way out?


   THE tents and flags are back in Independence Square; shots of the
   crowd again beam from giant screens to make them feel strong. The
   tactics are borrowed from the orange revolution of 2004; but the heart
   is missing. Speakers strive in vain to rouse the masses--some drunk,
   many seemingly paid to attend. At a protest encampment near the Rada,
   Ukraine's parliament, the carnival atmosphere of 2004 has been
   replaced by one of surliness.

   This shabby parody was provoked by the decision last week of Viktor
   Yushchenko, whom the revolution swept to Ukraine's presidency, to
   dissolve the Rada and call an early parliamentary election for May
   27th. The Rada's majority and the government say the president's
   decree is unconstitutional. Both are headed by Viktor Yanukovich, who
   was beaten in 2004 but became prime minister again last year.

   Mr Yushchenko's team says, as his adviser Oleg Rybachuk puts it, that
   Mr Yanukovich has himself "ignored all the constitutional blah blah
   blah" since he returned to office, constantly encroaching on Mr
   Yushchenko's authority, and using blackmail and bribery to amass a
   majority big enough to emasculate the president altogether. (Mr
   Yanukovich's people retort that the members they have turned are too
   rich to need bribing.) The government is refusing to organise the
   vote. Mr Yanukovich's Party of the Regions (PRU), and its Communist
   and Socialist allies, are refusing to participate in it, until
   Ukraine's constitutional court rules on the legality of the
   president's dissolution decree.

   Some of the court's judges this week complained of threats and
   pressure, delaying the hearing. Mr Yanukovich deployed a mix of menace
   (threats of impeachment, thousands bused into Kiev for his rallies)
   and compromise to persuade Mr Yushchenko to back down. But the
   president is not inclined to. Attending an Orthodox Easter service, he
   said he was determined to "cleanse the temple of the Pharisees and
   money-changers". Mr Rybachuk says Mr Yanukovich's lot are gangsters
   who respond only to force.

   On April 11th a way out of the impasse involving an election, but not
   as soon as May, suddenly looked likely. Prolonged instability would
   not suit the business tycoons who stand behind Mr Yanukovich. But less
   comfortable outcomes are still possible, such as a court ruling after
   the election that retroactively invalidates it. A more immediate
   danger is violence. This week riot police were positioned between
   Independence Square and a rival, pro-president rally staged (with
   better music) nearby. Mr Yushchenko's strong support in the capital,
   crucial in 2004, and his control of most of the security services,
   might prove decisive if the crisis deepens.

   Optimists see this latest Ukrainian stand-off as a product of the
   youth and fragility of its democratic institutions, and especially of
   a fudged constitutional reform agreed in 2004. They hope that a fresh
   election, plus some constitutional tinkering, will produce cleaner and
   more stable politics--even if, as Yuri Yakimenko, a Kiev pollster,
   says is likely, the new Rada ends up looking much like the present
   one. The only change might be that the Socialists, who betrayed their
   supporters by joining Mr Yanukovich, fail to get in. There will
   doubtless also be much talk of reviving the old orange alliance
   between Mr Yushchenko's party and Yulia Tymoshenko, his revolutionary
   ally and one-time prime minister, for whom every crisis brings fresh
   opportunity.

   The trouble is that, whatever its constitutional arrangements, Ukraine
   will for the foreseeable future be governed by corrupt, discredited
   politicians. Mr Yanukovich and his gang seem to treat
   everything--judges, parliamentary seats, protesters--as commodities
   for sale. To them the orange revolution was a paid-for confidence
   trick. But the revolutionaries themselves emerged from the same
   post-Soviet regime. Many were motivated by greed as much as principle,
   and afterwards felt entitled to political and financial rewards.

   Worse, beneath the struggle for power and assets lies a deeper schism,
   which Mr Yushchenko has failed to bridge. Although he roused only
   half-hearted cheers at his Kiev rally, Mr Yanukovich unquestionably
   commands wide support in south and east Ukraine. Old geopolitical
   loyalties are part of the explanation. "Yushchenko is Bush's puppet,"
   said one of the livelier protesters in the square, wearing a Red Army
   cap and carrying a placard showing George Bush as a Nazi. The
   Americans, she added, need Ukraine for their war with Russia.

   But there are other differences between Mr Yanukovich's backers and
   the western and central Ukrainians who mostly support his opponents.
   The east suffered in the Stalinist famine of the 1930s and inherited a
   political culture that combines narrow paternalistic expectations with
   profound cynicism. Easterners despised Mr Yushchenko in 2004 because,
   to them, his promises of a new sort of government were so much cant.

   That cynicism has not been wholly vindicated. Ukraine now has freer
   media and more assertive citizens. Even today's rancour can be seen as
   evidence of political pluralism, at least when compared with the
   situation in neighbouring Russia. But, thanks to the orange leaders'
   shortcomings and squabbles, neither have the cynics turned out to be
   completely wrong.


   Ukraine's president dissolves parliament. Maybe


   SIT-INS, blockades and fisticuffs are routine distractions in the
   Rada, Ukraine's parliament. But this week's chaos was unusual even by
   Ukrainian standards. After a big demonstration last weekend urged him
   on, President Viktor Yushchenko signed a decree on April 2nd to
   dissolve parliament and call a fresh election for May 27th. In the
   Rada, the ruling coalition promptly denounced the president and
   refused to budge. Each side now accuses the other of usurping power.

   Mr Yushchenko's immediate worry was a run of defections from his
   party, Our Ukraine, and the one led by Yulia Tymoshenko, his ally
   during the "orange revolution" of 2004. Ms Tymoshenko later became his
   prime minister, until her alliance with the president drowned in a
   mire of corruption allegations in 2005. The government is now led by
   Viktor Yanukovich, whom Mr Yushchenko defeated in the presidential
   race that sparked the revolution, but who became prime minister
   (again) last August. The methods used to swell the ranks of his
   parliamentary coalition are widely rumoured to include bribery and
   blackmail.

   The dodgy recruitment drive is the latest phase of a campaign to
   emasculate Mr Yushchenko, which began at the start of the unlikely
   cohabitation of the two Viktors. A constitutional reform agreed on
   during the orange revolution transferred some of the president's
   functions to parliament. Another law passed in January, with the help
   of the opportunistic Ms Tymoshenko, weakened Mr Yushchenko further.
   His efforts to nominate a foreign minister were repeatedly frustrated,
   as was his foreign policy itself.

   The coalition's leaders are now openly bent on amassing a majority big
   enough to override the presidential veto and strip Mr Yushchenko of
   his residual powers. It sounds like the sort of constitutional
   fine-tuning to be expected in a young democracy. In Ukraine, alas,
   disputes that may seem like issues of principle are often disguised
   struggles for wealth. Politicians' attitudes to any given office
   depend on their prospects of occupying it. Beyond the Rada, the
   country is worryingly divided between Yanukovich supporters in the
   east and south, and those mostly in Kiev and the west who want a more
   enlightened government.

   Many in this second camp, who have despaired of Mr Yushchenko's
   indecisiveness, were gleeful over the dissolution. But there are two
   reasons for caution. One is that, if the election goes ahead, it may
   produce a parliament that is just as fractious and corrupt as the
   existing one, which took almost six months after the previous election
   just to produce a government. Mr Yanukovich's Party of the Regions
   could even emerge stronger. The country may thus be fated to endure
   yet more political horsetrading and backstabbing--unless and until the
   entire ruling group of venal politicians is replaced.

   The other trouble is that there may not be an election at all. The
   legal basis for the president's dissolution is questionable, and Mr
   Yanukovich's lot have referred it to the constitutional court--though
   the chances of a timely ruling that is not tainted by threats and
   bribery are remote. Some in Moscow note the similarities to the
   Russian stand-off of 1993, which ended with Boris Yeltsin's tanks
   shelling Russia's parliament. Ukraine's defence minister says the army
   is loyal to the president; the police answer to the government.

   Meanwhile, anti-dissolution tent camps have sprung up in Kiev. For
   outside observers, the tents that housed the orange revolutionaries
   became symbols of peaceful democratic protest. For Ukraine's
   politicians, they have become just another way of getting what you
   want.


   The Turks ponder a cross-border incursion into northern Iraq


   ON JUNE 6th a premature report of a big Turkish invasion of northern
   Iraq rocked markets. Certainly thousands of Turkish troops, backed by
   tanks and artillery, have massed for a possible offensive against
   Kurdish PKK rebels in Iraq. Martial law has been declared in three of
   Turkey's Kurdish provinces. This follows rising violence against
   soldiers in Turkey. On June 4th seven Turkish soldiers died when
   Kurdish rebels raided an outpost in the province of Tunceli. In May
   six civilians were killed by a suspected PKK suicide-bomber in Ankara.

   All this increases the pressure on Turkey's prime minister, Recep
   Tayyip Erdogan, to strike the PKK in its mountain strongholds in Iraq.
   General Yasar Buyukanit, chief of the general staff, has called a
   putative cross-border incursion "necessary" and "useful". Deniz
   Baykal, the main opposition leader, is in favour.

   But the American defence secretary, Robert Gates, said this week that
   the United States was squarely opposed to unilateral Turkish action,
   which would destabilise the only calmish bit of Iraq. The Americans
   would prefer the Turks to use the Iraqi Kurds to help them make peace
   with the PKK. The PKK itself wants to draw more Turkish forces into
   Iraq (the Turks have kept some 1,000 soldiers there since an incursion
   in the 1990s) because, as a source suggests, "this could provoke armed
   confrontation between Turkey and America." It would also upset the
   European Union.

   A few days before this week's alleged invasion, two American fighter
   jets had strayed from Iraq into Turkish airspace. The Americans said
   this was an "accident", but some Turks saw a warning that America
   might side with the Kurds against them. Yet most Americans acknowledge
   that their refusal to heed Turkish calls to attack the PKK is now the
   main cause of rampant anti-Americanism in Turkey. Catching a few PKK
   ringleaders could improve matters.

   The Iraqi Kurds are unwilling to co-operate mainly because they see
   the PKK as a bargaining chip to get the Turks to recognise their
   quasi-independent status in Iraq. The Turks are against a referendum
   in Kirkuk this December that might lead it to join the Kurdish region.

   Massoud Barzani, the Iraqi Kurdish leader, threatens trouble in
   Turkey's mostly Kurdish south-eastern provinces, where his popularity
   is now starting to rival that of the captured PKK leader, Abdullah
   Ocalan. Most Iraqi Kurds consider their quasi-independent state as the
   real target of any Turkish incursion. But after two decades of battle,
   some 16 cross-border incursions and 40,000 dead, Turkey's leaders,
   military and civilian alike, know that force alone cannot solve
   Turkey's Kurdish problem.

   The generals may have another reason for sabre-rattling. By insisting
   on government approval to strike in Iraq, they are shifting the blame
   for the violence to the Americans and the Iraqi Kurds--and to Mr
   Erdogan. With each Turkish casualty Mr Erdogan risks losing
   nationalist votes. Yet if he orders a full invasion, Turkey may just
   get bogged down and face new enemies.


   Money brings organised crime to Basilicata

   THE landscape is the same: arid grey hills dropping steeply to a plain
   through which the River Agri flows. Even Aliano, a cluster of houses
   poised above ravines, appears much as it did when Mussolini banished
   Carlo Levi there in 1935. Of course, a lot has changed since Levi
   wrote "Christ Stopped at Eboli", about the people and poverty he
   found. Aliano today has water, electricity, roads and schools. Public
   money and private remittances have brought consumer goods. Malaria was
   beaten 50 years ago. Locals' lives have improved far beyond what Levi
   could ever have imagined.

   But all around are regions racked with organised crime. Puglia has the
   Sacra Corona Unita, Campania the Camorra and Calabria the worst of the
   lot, the 'Ndrangheta (this week a feud within the 'Ndrangheta reached
   as far as Germany, when six Italians were shot dead near Duisburg
   railway station). Now even Basilicata, with a population of only
   600,000, has criminals of its own.

   Flourishing fruit farms and a tourist boom along the Ionian coast have
   been the main lure. "Nobody was aware of what was happening until
   bombs began exploding. And then there were murders," laments Filippo
   Mele, a former mayor of Scanzano Jonico. Police operations have put
   dozens in jail, but any vacuum is soon filled.

   About 100km (60 miles) from Scanzano Jonico, the villages of the upper
   Agri sit near a big oilfield. Special measures were tried to stop
   organised crime muscling in when oil production began a decade ago,
   but the bonanza has brought an inflow of public money. The region and
   local villages share royalties expected to be worth EUR750m ($1
   billion) over the next 15 years. Oil and coastal rackets are not the
   only objects of the criminals' interest. Public funds poured in after
   an earthquake in 1980; EU farm subsidies are another tempting target.

   A fog of suspicion also clouds local institutions. On August 6th a
   judge in Potenza, the regional capital, ordered the suspension of
   eight officials who had vetted projects for EU subsidies. Even the law
   is suspect. Last spring the chief prosecutor in Potenza retired early.
   "Incompatibility with local surroundings" has led to transfers for a
   prosecutor and the court's president in Matera, Basilicata's second
   city.

   Luigi de Magistris, a magistrate from Calabria whose investigations
   have shaken Basilicata's magistracy, worries about what is happening.
   "There is a virus, but no anti-virus. There is collusion between
   businessmen and politicians of left, right and centre, and within the
   state there are those who are anti-state," he says. Alas, where public
   institutions are absent, weak or worse, it tends to be the organised
   criminals who step in to make the law.


   The UN's troubling departure from Ingushetia

   EVEN by the standards of the Caucasus, the two little-noticed
   rocket-propelled grenade attacks in March on the United Nations'
   office compound in Nazran, the main city of the republic of
   Ingushetia, were worrying. One of Russia's poorest provinces, it hosts
   thousands of refugees, and is supposedly a safe base for international
   agencies working in neighbouring Chechnya. The bombardment gave the
   lie to Kremlin claims that life in the region is "normal". But the
   real story of the decision by the World Health Organisation, the World
   Food Programme, UNICEF and others to pull their expat staff out to
   Vladikavkaz has a still more alarming aspect.

   The Economist understands that the attacks followed a dispute about
   money between the UN's security department and the bit of the Ingush
   interior ministry responsible for guarding their compound. The UN
   apparently resisted a demand by the guards that it pay for all their
   other work at the compound (which is used by other outfits too).

   Officially, all sides deny any disagreement. A UN official in the
   region pooh-poohs a link with the grenade attacks as "half-arsed". Yet
   some UN-niks have been heard to say that their supposed protectors
   have been harassing them. Curiously, one of the two grenades narrowly
   missed the building used by the UN security team. The other one hit
   it.

   The unlikely good cop in this sorry tale seems to be Russia's infamous
   Federal Security Service. It warned the UN about further violence, and
   of a serious threat of kidnapping. Foreign UN staff now avoid even
   travelling through Ingushetia, for example en route to Chechnya. The
   Ingush government has reportedly offered sympathy but little else. No
   wonder: bombings, killings and kidnappings are commonplace there,
   driven by a dizzying mix of politics, religion and revenge. Two
   members of the Ingush president's family have been snatched. The
   security services are both victims and perpetrators of the chaos.

   For all its oil-fuelled bravado, the Kremlin all too often fails to
   meet its people's basic needs, relying instead on outside agencies and
   charities (it routinely accuses the latter of espionage). It seems
   that Russia--a permanent member of the UN Security Council--may be
   unable to protect that organisation's staff from its own state
   servants. Unable, or unwilling: it can be hard to tell if corruption
   happens against the Kremlin's wishes, or with its blessing.


                                                                      EPA

                                    EPA

   Mikheil Saakashvili is duly re-elected as Georgia's president, but he
   is a somewhat chastened man


   ON THE night of January 5th, as Georgians voted in a presidential
   election, men in uniform were throwing snowballs. A Christmas fair
   cheered up Rustaveli Avenue, Tbilisi's main street. Anything that
   could be illuminated was. All normal in some places--but a novelty in
   Georgia.

   Four years ago, when Mikheil Saakashvili and his supporters, armed
   with roses, stormed parliament and seized power, Georgia was in
   freefall and Rustaveli Avenue was barely lit. It had been the scene of
   violence by Soviet troops, and then of civil war. Since Mr Saakashvili
   came to office, Tbilisi has been transformed. The economy is booming
   and foreigners are flocking to invest. This is more impressive since
   Georgia has almost no mineral resources and is under Russian embargo.

   Merab Kuchukhidze, selling toys at the Christmas fair, voted for Mr
   Saakashvili because "I want this to continue." That is why Mr
   Saakashvili got 52% of the vote in a country he has subjected to
   radical reform. But still last November 50,000 Georgians came out on
   the streets to protest against poverty, rising prices and injustice.
   The protest ended in violence and a state of emergency. Even when
   Georgia seems normal, a crisis is not far off.

   In November Mr Saakashvili, the darling of the West, sent riot police
   with truncheons, water cannons and tear-gas to disperse the crowds.
   Special forces shut down and vandalised the Imedi television station,
   the main news outlet for the opposition. The disproportionate use of
   force shocked Mr Saakashvili's Western friends and repulsed most
   Georgians.

   Yet Mr Saakashvili is unrepentant. He says the use of force was
   justified by the threat of a coup. Opposition leaders, he claims, were
   planning to storm parliament and overthrow the government. Imedi,
   owned by a tycoon, Badri Patarkatsishvili, was spreading provocative
   disinformation. (A few weeks later Georgia's security services taped
   Mr Patarkatsishvili in London offering $100m to a state official to
   precipitate a coup. This information was embarrassing enough for Imedi
   journalists to stage a strike against their owner.)

   At the time Mr Saakashvili implied that Russia, Georgia's main
   adversary, was behind the instability. "Stop blaming Russia for your
   domestic problems," the opposition said. They had a point. The crisis,
   unnoticed by the West, had been building for some time and was largely
   brought on by the president himself. His reforms have cut deep into
   Georgia's way of life. To fight corruption, he fired 30,000 policemen
   and slashed the bureaucracy. He liberalised the economy more than most
   European countries: anything that could be privatised was. Unlike his
   predecessor, Mr Saakashvili showed no reverence for the old
   intelligentsia and little respect for seniority. He brought in a new
   Western-educated elite that was aloof and efficient. If you are over
   40 and don't speak English, you are a nobody, some Georgians complain.

   A backlash was inevitable. "If, after all this, we got 80% of the
   votes, it would have meant we had done something wrong," Mr
   Saakashvili says in an interview. But it was his style that infuriated
   even some supporters. He spared no time burnishing his credentials
   abroad, but did not explain his policies to the voters. He bragged
   about his reforms but showed little compassion for those they left
   behind. He admits he was insensitive and that some of his liberal
   policies were inflexible and too harsh. His election message, devised
   by American advisers, was: "I listened, I heard, I understand."
   Billboards showing Mr Saakashvili looking after the old and frail
   advertised "Georgia without poverty".

   The opposition says this was cynical. "As if he did not know about the
   social problems in the country," says Salome Zourabichvili, a former
   foreign minister who is now in opposition. Besides, she adds, the
   demonstrations were about the principles of democracy and justice. She
   accuses Mr Saakashvili of usurping power and undermining the legal
   system and property rights. For David Usupashvili, the most moderate
   of the opposition leaders, the question is "whether we have a
   government working within a rule of law or do we have a team of `good
   guys' who cut corners in the name of reform."

   The protesters first demanded that Mr Saakashvili hold a parliamentary
   election next spring. But its call for Mr Saakashvili to resign
   backfired when he called an early presidential election for which the
   opposition was unprepared. Levan Gachechiladze, the candidate it put
   up against him, was no match for Mr Saakashvili's political experience
   or charisma. Being nondescript was not enough. "He talks little and
   does not promise anything," one of his own supporters said
   approvingly.

   Yet the protest vote against Mr Saakashvili, particularly in Tbilisi,
   was big enough to give Mr Gachechiladze 26% of the vote. The election
   itself was imperfect. Mr Saakashvili exploited his presidential
   position during the campaign, and the media were biased. There were
   incidents of intimidation and pressure. But international observers
   said it had passed the test of a democratic election. It was certainly
   the most competitive one in Georgia's history. Until now, says Ghia
   Nodia, a political analyst, "power in Georgia had always been
   contested on the streets, while elections were simply a way of
   endorsing it."

   Contesting political power in an election still seems unorthodox to
   many Georgians. Georgi Khaindrava, a former minister, predicted
   fatalistically that if Mr Saakashvili won more than 50% of votes, it
   would mean the election had been rigged. When the election commission
   said Mr Saakashvili had scored enough votes to avoid a second round,
   the opposition cried foul, staged a protest and later burst into its
   offices. Tolerance is a rare commodity in Georgian politics on either
   side. "If you compare Mr Saakashvili with the opposition, he is still
   more democratic," says Mr Nodia.

   However imperfect, the election has delivered some good results.
   First, it has left Mr Saakashvili in power. Georgia's problem was not
   lack of pluralism but a malfunctioning state, which Mr Saakashvili is
   still the best man to fix. Second, the election gave him only a thin
   majority, which has had a sobering effect on him. "I am used to
   winning elections with percentages in the high 70s," he says. Many
   Georgians want him to stay but with reduced support; they may vote
   against his party in the parliamentary election.

   Mr Saakashvili appears to have learnt his lesson. "It is much better
   to have a mainstream opposition in parliament, than a marginalised
   opposition on the streets," he concedes. He has promised to offer the
   opposition jobs in the government, and called for a truce with Russia.
   Mr Saakashvili has also revealed that Georgian officials have recently
   had informal discussions with Russian officials, who have hinted that
   Russia may soon lift its embargo.

   The election also taught a lesson to Georgia's Western friends: that
   unqualified support for one man may not always be in Georgia's best
   interest. Like many modernisers (his role-model is Ataturk), Mr
   Saakashvili has autocratic instincts. The problem is that when
   democratic institutions are weak, a benevolent autocrat can turn into
   a malign one. So the best thing the West can do is to provide some
   checks and balances. A chastened President Saakashvili may just be a
   better leader for Georgia.


   A surprising boost in revenues fuels a debate about tax cuts 

   BY THE standards of his predecessors, Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa, Italy's
   finance minister, is luck personified. Cash has rained into the
   treasury. In the first eight months of 2007, income- and corporate-tax
   receipts rose by 21%. The government says this is thanks to its
   clampdown on tax evasion. It reckons that EUR270 billion ($370
   billion), or a fifth of GDP, was going unpaid each year (95% of
   Italians claim to earn less than EUR40,000).

   Thwarted evasion, however, accounts for less than half the revenue
   increase. Another factor is that the economy is enjoying a rare spurt
   of growth: GDP is expected to rise by 2% this year. The opposition
   prefers to stress that Italians now pay more taxes at higher rates. Mr
   Padoa-Schioppa's first budget raised the top income-tax bracket to
   43%. For those who pay their due, Italy is now an onerous place. What
   is more, taxpayers get miserable value for money. Public spending in
   Italy is higher than in Germany, if lower than in France (see chart).
   But the clincher is that public-sector pay is high and the quality of
   public services is among the worst in Europe.

   That imbalance fuels growing impatience with the politicians. On
   September 8th Beppe Grillo, a comedian, set out to gather signatures
   for a petition calling for changes to the electoral and parliamentary
   rules. He hoped for 50,000 signatures, but got six times as many.
   Umberto Bossi, leader of the Northern League, recently proposed a tax
   strike. He has since back-tracked to propose a boycott of state-run
   lotteries, but not before winning the support of a respected
   employers' representative for his more radical idea.

   That was a sign of exasperation in business, notably in the north. The
   employers' leader, Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, has called the high
   level of corporate tax an "emergency" and urged the government to trim
   it. Yet the left-wing parties in Romano Prodi's coalition want any
   extra revenues used to mitigate social inequality.

   Caught between these demands, Mr Padoa-Schioppa feels anything but
   fortunate. His reaction is to remind people that Italy has vast debt;
   that the interest soaks up cash that could be spent on infrastructure
   and welfare; and that the tax bonanza has done little more than smooth
   progress towards the aim of cutting debt to below 100% of GDP by 2010.
   This point is the more pertinent since there are signs that the
   economy is losing puff. It grew by only 0.1% in the second quarter.

   Mr Padoa-Schioppa has so far resisted calls for tax cuts and argued
   that, far from raising spending, the government should cut it. He has
   circulated a "green book" to ministers with tips on how to curb their
   departments' spending. So far, he has been backed by Mr Prodi. But,
   with many on the right of the coalition calling for tax cuts, and the
   government appearing to be more unpopular than ever in the polls, the
   pressure to give way is growing.


   The government survives--and stirs a debate on responses to kidnappers
   
   ROMANO PRODI'S shaky centre-left government this week laid to rest, at
   least for now, the issue that almost caused it to collapse last month.
   On March 27th the upper-house Senate voted to keep paying for Italian
   troops abroad. Some 2,000 are in Afghanistan, where Italy's engagement
   is a source of anguished misgiving for the radical and pacifist left.
   Mr Prodi can no longer count on a majority in the Senate; in February
   a rebellion by two far-left senators, prompted by Afghanistan, almost
   brought his government down.

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                          A freedom fag for Mastrogiacomo

   This week, Mr Prodi won a majority thanks to support from unelected
   life senators and from rebels within the centre-right opposition. That
   made the outcome more damaging to the main opposition leader, Silvio
   Berlusconi. Mr Berlusconi saw the vote as a chance to defeat the
   government, but others on the right felt they could not refuse support
   for Italian troops. They included a member of Mr Berlusconi's own
   party and all 20 senators from the Union of Christian Democrats (UDC),
   the third-biggest party in the centre-right alliance that lost the
   election in April 2006.

   With one former UDC senator having already deserted to the
   centre-left, there is speculation that the party could become a
   semi-detached backer of Mr Prodi. The UDC's leader, Pier Ferdinando
   Casini, has ruled this out. But he appeared to leave open the
   possibility of joining a rejigged coalition, arguing that Italy needs
   a more stable government. Unfortunately, the UDC, whose power base is
   in the south, is notoriously chary of the liberal economic reforms
   that Italy also needs.

   Since the lower house had already approved an identical motion on
   funding, Italy's contribution to the NATO-led forces in Afghanistan is
   assured for another year. Yet the ripples caused by Italy's anguish
   over Afghanistan continue to spread--and this week lapped at NATO
   itself. NATO's secretary-general, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, said that he
   would begin talks over forming a common response to hostage-taking.
   His initiative seems to have been prompted by Italy's handling of the
   March 4th kidnapping by the Taliban of an Italian journalist, Daniele
   Mastrogiacomo.

   In Italy the kidnap revived misgivings about any involvement in
   Afghanistan, increasing the risk of a government defeat in the Senate.
   But it also teased out some big differences between Italy and most of
   its allies. Italy is influenced by Roman Catholic views on the
   sanctity of life. It also has a history of paying ransom money.

   It is not clear if the Taliban were after a degree of political
   acceptance or concrete gains. But they got both: talks, albeit
   indirect, with the Italian authorities, and the release of five
   prisoners (including, reportedly, the brother of the Taliban's top
   commander, Mullah Dadullah). The five men had been held by the Afghan
   authorities, who said they were freed "because we value our relations
   and friendship with Italy". This remark suggests that the Italians had
   threatened to breach the allies' united front in Afghanistan if they
   did not get what they wanted.

   Italy is not the only country to have struck a deal with insurgents.
   Germany is suspected of paying several multi-million dollar ransoms,
   notably for the release in 2005 of an archaeologist held in Iraq. But
   Mr Mastrogiacomo was the latest of at least half a dozen Italian
   hostages in different parts of the world who are thought to have been
   ransomed in the past two years. And rarely has a deal been as openly
   acknowledged as this one. NATO is right to be debating the problem.


   What a reduction in abstraction says about the new France


   OF ALL the novelties of France under President Nicolas Sarkozy, one of
   the more arresting is the decline of the abstract noun. In the past,
   no French leader would make a speech without liberal doses of destiny
   and history. In one speech Mr Sarkozy's predecessor, Jacques Chirac,
   squeezed 13 abstract nouns--unity, liberty, humanity and more--into a
   single sentence. He was almost outdone by his prime minister (and
   part-time poet), Dominique de Villepin, who came up with the
   declaration: "Globalisation is not an ideal, it cannot be our
   destiny."

   The contrast with the wordcraft of Mr Sarkozy is instructive. In his
   first big foreign-policy speech, he managed in 18 pages to utter
   neither the word glory nor the word grandeur. Unlike his British
   counterparts, who favour verbless sentences, Mr Sarkozy is a
   verbaholic. According to a linguistic analysis of his campaign
   speeches by Damon Mayaffre, of the University of Nice, one of Mr
   Sarkozy's most frequent words is I, usually followed by the verb want.

   What does this say about France? One answer is that the country has a
   hyperactive president, constantly on the go, who expects the French to
   be so too. "Work more to earn more" was his slogan, and his use of
   verbs matches the message. This is a man who likes to jog, where
   previous presidents preferred a dignified stroll. Indeed, his
   predilection prompted Libération, a left-leaning newspaper, to ask,
   "Is jogging right-wing?" It even moved a philosopher, Alain
   Finkielkraut, to implore the president to take up the promenade--a
   "spiritual experience"--and to give up jogging, which is mere "body
   management".

   Another explanation is that Mr Sarkozy is challenging the French
   tradition of conceptualism. Intellectuals, long cherished by the
   establishment, get short shrift now. "It's an old national habit:
   France is a country that thinks," said Christine Lagarde, the finance
   minister, in a speech on the value of work, before adding: "Enough
   thinking now! Let's roll up our sleeves." This week, Mr Sarkozy
   sneered at French philosophers during the visit of Libya's Muammar
   Qaddafi to Paris, accusing them of sipping coffee in Left Bank cafés
   while others got things done. As for France's famously rigid school
   curriculum, he has little fondness for it. Too much time is spent, he
   has declared, "on doctrine, theory and abstraction", and not enough on
   practical applications. How long will it be before he has a go at the
   national motto, a veritable wealth of abstraction: Liberty, Equality,
   Fraternity?


   Sweden's growing worries about Russia fuel a love-in with Norway

   WHEN the cold war ended, Sweden felt able to turn a furtive friendship
   with its fellow neutral Finland into a close economic, political and
   security one. Now it wants also to cosy up to its western neighbour
   and NATO member, Norway. Again, the motivation is Russia--but fear,
   not rapprochement, is the spur.

   The Swedes' immediate worry is a planned Russian-German gas pipeline
   on the Baltic seabed. That is littered with dumped chemical weapons
   and other munitions dating from the second world war, and home to
   sensitive submarine defences built during the cold war. A planned
   pumping station (see map) close to the Swedish shore has infuriated
   the country's defence establishment, which fears it will be used for
   Russian electronic espionage or other mischief-making. Such concerns
   give Sweden no legal basis for blocking the pipeline, but it is trying
   to delay it on environmental grounds.

   A combative radio interview by the Russian ambassador to Sweden,
   Alexander Kadakin, has failed to allay fears. He repeatedly described
   critics of the pipeline as "idiots", arguing: "why should we need
   [another] spy station when we already have the real-time capability to
   read the number plates of every car in Stockholm?"

   Last week Mats Engman, head of Sweden's influential MUST military
   intelligence and security service, publicly gave warning of the
   "Russian bear's...greater self-confidence and increased freedom of
   action." In the same week another top military thinker, Stefan
   Gustafsson, said: "the strategic map has changed. We must now analyse
   what resources are required at home if tension in the north were to
   grow." He noted that Russia's economic prosperity was financing a
   sharp rise in defence spending.

   Sweden and Norway are the military heavyweights of Scandinavia
   (Finland maintains a well-trained army with a stellar record, but has
   only a vestigial navy and air force). General Håken Syrén, commander
   of the Swedish armed forces, said recently that "Swedish and Norwegian
   security and defence interests are running closer than ever...and
   often shared." Sweden already shares its radar surveillance data
   closely with Finland and is discussing other military monitoring
   projects. It now hopes to match these by similar co-operation with
   Norway.

   However much diplomats may wince, there is no disguising that all this
   aimed at only one country: Russia. The hottest issue is energy. Norway
   hopes that a newly hawkish Sweden will be supportive in its
   long-running dispute with Russia over the two countries' northern sea
   border (see map). At stake are the "High North's" lucrative, and still
   largely unexploited, oil and gas reserves.

   A big sign of intensified co-operation would be if Norway chose to
   upgrade its air force with the Gripen JAS-39 fighter, made by Sweden's
   Saab. A Swedish television investigation this week claimed to have
   unearthed evidence of bribes of 1 billion kronor ($142m) paid to
   support the sale of 24 Gripen jets to the Czech Republic. A second
   programme next week will make similar allegations about sales in
   Norway. That may hold things up a bit.

   Unlearning the trusting habits of the past decade will be hard:
   Sweden's security establishment was run down in years when trade
   promotion and haggling in Brussels outweighed Russia-watching. Hawks
   are cheered by the foreign minister, Carl Bildt, a tough-minded and
   eloquent figure who as prime minister from 1991 to 1994 threw Sweden's
   weight behind the freedom of the Baltic states.

   All this is uncomfortable for Finland, forced by geography into a more
   cautious stance towards Russia. Finns have never forgotten that they
   learned of Sweden's decision to apply for membership of the European
   Union only when they read it in the newspapers. Some wonder if they
   might get the same nasty surprise about Sweden and NATO.


   Vladimir Putin asserts his country's place in the world


   LONG-LEGGED beauties in G-strings; fashion models in thigh-length red
   boots; even Ramzan Kadyrov, the Chechen warlord-turned-president,
   sporting a diamond-studded belt. All were on display in St Petersburg
   last week, along with a bevy of the world's top corporate bosses,
   political leaders and diplomats, at the annual economic forum, which
   has become a showcase of Russia's economic resurgence under Vladimir
   Putin.

   It was also, in a way, a microcosm of Russia. Those obsessed over who
   might succeed Mr Putin in 2008 noted that Sergei Ivanov, one of two
   front-runners, gave a presidential-style opening speech, but his
   rival, Dmitry Medvedev, was merely invited to sit on a panel. Mr
   Ivanov said that Russia would soon become the fifth-largest economy in
   the world. He also promised to fight red tape and graft.

   Both ills seemed evident at the forum. The event was cordoned off from
   the public; even those who were accredited were restricted in their
   movements. A chief executive of one big company was apparently asked
   for sponsorship money; when he refused he found his hotel reservation
   cancelled. Yet foreign investors' appetite for Russian assets seems to
   be heartier than ever. None of the bosses who met Mr Putin behind
   closed doors made a fuss about Russia's investment climate. Jeroen van
   der Veer, the boss of Royal Dutch Shell, which recently had to cede
   control over its giant Sakhalin 2 project to Gazprom, even stood up
   and thanked the president. Despite the rough treatment of some foreign
   companies and worsening relations with the West, business deals are
   still coming thick and fast.

   Arriving fresh from the G8 summit, Mr Putin asserted his place in the
   world and wrote off existing global organisations as archaic,
   undemocratic and unwieldy. "The world is changing before our very
   eyes," he said. "Countries that seemed hopelessly backward only
   yesterday are becoming the world's fastest-growing economies today."
   Russia no longer wanted simply to be part of the world's outdated
   architecture, but to change it, he told a panel that included Pascal
   Lamy, head of the World Trade Organisation, Peter Mandelson, the
   European trade commissioner, and Francis Fukuyama, a political
   scientist.

   To remind the world of Russia's foreign-policy ambitions, Mr Putin
   invited Vojislav Kostunica, Serbia's prime minister, to the forum. Mr
   Kostunica thanked Russia for being a staunch opponent of the
   independence of Kosovo. A few days earlier Mr Putin had brushed aside
   a proposal by Nicolas Sarkozy, the new French president, to give Serbs
   and Albanians another six months to negotiate. "Our position on Kosovo
   is based on international law and on the decisions adopted by the UN
   Security Council. This resolution states black on white that Kosovo is
   an integral part of Serbia," Mr Putin said. The Russians also ask, if
   Kosovo is granted independence, why not the two breakaway republics of
   Abkhazia and South Ossetia in Georgia?

   This week the Russians summoned an emergency meeting in Vienna to
   berate the West in their row over the status of the Conventional
   Forces in Europe treaty, a post cold-war deal. And Mr Putin has also
   managed, at least for now, to outmanoeuvre the Americans over missile
   defences in Europe. At the G8 meeting he offered joint use of a radar
   that Russia leases from Azerbaijan instead (see [4]article). Yet one
   former official in Washington says the same idea was floated five
   years ago. Discussion of it led nowhere then, and is even less likely
   to bear fruit now.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [3]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=76808258?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   4. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

   The brutal suppression of peaceful protests says much about the
   dangerously unfettered mood in the Kremlin


   SHORTLY after noon on April 14th, Russian riot police--known as the
   OMON--dragged a young man holding a bunch of flowers off the pavement
   near Pushkin Square in central Moscow. As he was thrown into a van, he
   braced his feet against the doors, to cheers from the crowd, but to
   the evident ire of the police. The doors were repeatedly slammed
   against his legs. An officer who climbed inside then appeared to beat
   him.

   The thousands of soldiers and police who mustered in the streets for
   the day gave Moscow an air of war. They came to quash a protest by
   Other Russia, a disparate coalition of President Vladimir Putin's
   critics. When a small group bypassed the cordons around the square and
   began shouting "freedom", the OMON rushed in. Copies of the
   constitution that the group had been carrying were trampled; Garry
   Kasparov, a former chess champion, was pulled from a restaurant. The
   OMON beat everybody nearby, including journalists, with truncheons and
   fists. And they arrested people indiscriminately, among them the man
   with the flowers, a group of transvestites and even a small boy.

   The excuse for all this was that the authorities had denied permission
   for Other Russia to rally in Pushkin Square. That refusal was itself
   one of the gnawing, pseudo-legal methods used to harass Russia's
   meagre opposition. The claim was made that a fake pro-Kremlin youth
   group had lodged an identical request only moments before Other Russia
   did. A handful of counter-protesters duly appeared on a roof, where
   they let off flares and insulted those below; the police did nothing.
   A few nationalists also gathered later in the day, with posters
   showing Jews clutching severed heads of Russian babies and making Nazi
   salutes.

   There had been grim pre-emptive warnings about the treatment that
   "illegal" protesters could expect, which were amply fulfilled. As a
   gritty snow fell, a few hundred tried to march to Turgenev Square,
   where a meeting had been sanctioned, chanting slogans such as "Down
   with Chekist power" and "We need another Russia". Mikhail Kasyanov,
   once Mr Putin's prime minister, now a critic, was jostled; his
   bodyguards were arrested. A small peaceful group was intercepted by
   the OMON. An old man tried to save an old woman from arrest; a dozen
   club-wielding men viciously attacked both. Vladimir Ryzhkov, an
   independent member of parliament whose party and seat are both
   disappearing under new political rules, advised everyone to go home.

   The thousand-odd who managed to reach Turgenev Square were surrounded
   by soldiers. When the time allowed for the meeting expired, they were
   driven off. Andrei Illarionov, a former economic adviser to Mr Putin,
   vainly read extracts from the Russian criminal code to an OMON
   officer. He and others were forced into a metro station. Later Mr
   Kasparov was ludicrously convicted and fined for shouting
   anti-government slogans. Supporters and journalists who gathered
   outside the police station were beaten again.

   The next day the action moved on to sunny St Petersburg, where Mr
   Putin himself first learned his trade in the KGB. Gazprom's plans to
   build a tower, and the exclusion of Yabloko, a liberal party, from a
   regional election, had contributed to an unusually large protest there
   in March. This time, the authorities were better prepared. As in
   Moscow, several would-be participants in Other Russia's meeting were
   detained in advance. Only around 1,000 gathered for a suffocatingly
   policed demonstration. "I believe Putin is the most dangerous criminal
   in Russia", read one man's placard, which bravely specified his name
   and address. "I love you, OMON", said another.

   The feeling was not reciprocated. As in Moscow, reinforcements were
   summoned from outside, perhaps because they would be less squeamish
   about pummelling the locals. "Are you going to beat us all?", an old
   woman asked an officer in battle gear, as protesters were funnelled
   away from tourists on Nevsky Prospekt. Shortly afterwards they did.
   When a group reached Vitebsky railway station, the OMON blocked their
   path, banged their riot shields and charged, skull-cracked and
   arrested at random. People waiting for buses and drunks sleeping on
   benches were caught in the frenzy. Eduard Limonov, the leader of
   another banned organisation, was arrested.

   The Kremlin says that its Other Russia critics are insignificant, and
   in a way it is right. Even were they not denied access to television
   (newspapers and radio stations who interview them also risk
   prosecution), the part-Jewish, part-Armenian Mr Kasparov and his
   allies would not command much support. Ordinary Russians can be
   stirred by tangible worries such as welfare reform, but for most of
   them freedom is about foreign holidays and a new television, not
   politics. Still, last weekend's excesses matter because of three
   things they reveal about the regime.

   First, the old Soviet neurosis about public meetings has been stoked
   to paranoia by Ukraine's "orange revolution" of 2004, which some in
   the Kremlin saw as a Western-sponsored coup. Since dissent must
   reflect foreign meddling, they see Other Russia as a Western stooge,
   part of a covert operation to destabilise the country. As with so many
   authoritarian rulers, they may be unsure how popular they are.

   Second, ahead of next year's presidential election the Kremlin is set
   on intimidating any opponents into quiescence, whatever the cost to
   Russia's reputation. Some may also want to send a message to foreign
   enemies, including exiles in London such as Boris Berezovsky.

   Yet Mr Putin is not Stalin. Nobody was killed at the protests, though
   hundreds were arrested and dozens hospitalised. But the third lesson
   is that the ruthless paranoiacs who run Russia are utterly unfettered
   in what they choose to do. Parliament is unlikely to investigate the
   huge cost of the gratuitous mobilisation. Suborned courts convicted
   innocent people of imaginary offences. The scant coverage on the main
   television channels made no mention of the man with the flowers or the
   brutalised old couple, and called those who demonstrated
   "ultra-radicals".


   The riddle of Russia's offer to help defend Europe from missiles


   DOES Vladimir Putin's idea of sharing an early-warning radar with
   America make any sense? The Russian president surprised G8 leaders on
   June 7th with a proposal to end the row over missile defences in
   Europe. Instead of building a new radar in the Czech Republic, America
   could share data from the Gabala radar that Russia leases from
   Azerbaijan. Rather than placing interceptors in Poland, they could be
   based farther south, in Turkey or at sea.

   Mr Putin said this would offer better protection from Iranian
   missiles, and that Russia would no longer have to aim its warheads at
   Europe, as he had threatened. President George Bush said it was
   "interesting" and experts should discuss it. But officials at
   America's Missile Defence Agency (MDA) note that the Gabala radar is
   designed to scan whole regions, whereas the proposed X-band radar in
   the Czech Republic would send out a narrow beam to identify small
   objects in space and help direct interceptors. Gabala could be
   upgraded, or used to supplement other early-warning data.

   America's interceptors on Aegis ships and mobile launchers could hit
   Iran's present missiles that reach the eastern Mediterranean (if they
   are not fooled by decoys). But the MDA says they would struggle, at
   great cost, to protect all of western Europe, let alone America, from
   future weapons of far greater range. Siting more powerful ground
   interceptors too close to Iran means they might not have enough time
   to hit fast-moving long-range missiles.

   In short, it seems unlikely that Mr Putin means to help build Europe's
   missile shield, rather than sabotage it. But his move was a clever
   pre-emptive strike that threw other G8 leaders off balance.


                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

   The election returns more predictable politicians--and brings relief
   in Europe 


   THE era of the terrible twins is over. That is the upshot of the
   election on October 21st in which the ruling Law and Justice party, a
   populist and nationalist outfit, was swept aside by a more moderate
   and pro-European party, Civic Platform. On the highest turnout since
   the collapse of communism in 1989, almost 54% of Poles voted,
   including for the first time large numbers from the diaspora in
   western Europe. Civic Platform, under its leader, Donald Tusk (above),
   polled just over 41%, winning 209 seats in the 460-member lower house
   of parliament, an increase of 76 seats on the 2005 elections (see
   chart).

   Law and Justice, led by the outgoing prime minister, Jaroslaw
   Kaczynski, polled more votes than last time and even increased its
   seats by 11, thanks to the demise of two small populist parties that
   had been its on-off allies in the unstable governing coalition of the
   past two years. Mr Kaczynski's brother, Lech, remains president until
   2010, and may try to use various delaying powers to hamper the new
   government. But his veto can be overruled by a three-fifths vote in a
   quorate session of the lower house. With only 166 seats, Law and
   Justice cannot block that.

   The result was a surprise. For most of the campaign, Civic Platform
   had been lagging badly. The government seemed to have made the
   election a referendum about corruption, one of Poland's biggest
   problems in the post-communist era. That seemed to polarise opinion
   successfully: only the austere Mr Kaczynski and his zealous
   corruption-busters stood for change. Opposing them meant defending the
   sleazy practices of the past. A strong dose of social conservatism on
   issues such as homosexuality and abortion, though it appalled
   liberal-minded, middle-class opinion in the cities, went down well
   with the many traditionalist rural voters.

   The alarm and contempt with which the Kaczynskis were viewed abroad
   seemed to make little impact. Prickly, monoglot, untravelled and
   old-fashioned (neither uses a computer and Jaroslaw does not even have
   his own bank account), they embodied and exploited the inferiority
   complex felt by many Poles.

   But Law and Justice overdid it. The high-handed approach of the
   publicity-loving justice minister, Zbigniew Ziobro, and the
   appointment of a close Kaczynski political ally, Antoni Macierewicz,
   as the head of a new military counter-intelligence service caused
   widespread queasiness in the country. Coupled with a highly partisan
   approach to top appointments in supposedly neutral institutions such
   as public broadcasting, the Kaczynski way of doing things risked
   comparison with Vladimir Putin's authoritarian regime in Russia.

   Such fears were overdone. Polish democracy may have been bruised by
   the Kaczynski era, but it was not in danger. Voters were unconvinced
   by the Kaczynskis' sometimes hysterical claims of the dangers posed by
   the corrupt overlap of ex-spooks and ex-communists. The use of
   sometimes primitive and xenophobic language prompted younger,
   better-educated Poles, previously apathetic about domestic politics,
   to vote in large numbers.

   The turning-point of the campaign was the prime minister's humiliation
   by Mr Tusk in a televised debate. Mr Tusk used humour, calmness and
   command of the facts to flatten Mr Kaczynski, allegedly flu-ridden,
   who came across as bombastic and waffly. Mr Tusk highlighted Law and
   Justice's weakness on economics, such as an unfulfilled pledge to
   build 3m new homes. He also pointed out that 2m Poles had gone to seek
   work abroad.

   Law and Justice then made matters worse by overplaying their strongest
   card: anti-corruption. Earlier in the campaign, police had arrested a
   Civic Platform parliamentary deputy, Beata Sawicka, in a sting
   operation (she admits doing wrong, but accuses the government of
   acting unfairly). Her party immediately sacked her. But two weeks
   later the powerful anti-corruption agency set up by Law and Justice
   held a sensational press conference to show a film, shot secretly, of
   Ms Sawicka apparently taking a bribe. That seemed to have nothing to
   do with the rule of law and everything to do with the election
   campaign. When Ms Sawicka held a press conference the next day, during
   which she broke down in tears, Mr Kaczynski commented that the
   opposition was trying to use a weeping woman to win the election. The
   episode symbolised Law and Justice's worst side: petty, vindictive and
   crass.

   On many issues, Civic Platform and Law and Justice overlap. Both have
   their roots in the anti-communist dissident movement; both emphasise
   the importance of the Catholic church. The fundamental difference is
   in their attitude to the painful economic changes of the 1990s. Law
   and Justice represents the losers from that era; Civic Platform stands
   for those who did well out of it. The biggest difference now will be
   in the style of government. Civic Platform prides itself on its
   international credentials and competence. How much of that translates
   into real reform at home remains to be seen.

   But foreign policy will certainly be different. Mr Tusk wants Polish
   troops pulled out of Iraq, sooner rather than later. Under the likely
   foreign minister, Oxford-educated Radek Sikorski, Poland may drive a
   slightly tougher bargain with America over missile defence. It will
   try to be a more co-operative member of the EU, avoiding the
   unnecessary fights, especially with Germany, that typified the
   Kaczynski era. "We've always held a hand out towards the Poles; now
   maybe it will be shaken," says a German official. Law and Justice will
   see such rapprochements as treachery. But the voters thought
   otherwise.


   Can fish fish themselves? Only in one of the European Union's maddest
   schemes



   IN RATIONAL systems of government, officials do not enjoy hearing that
   one of their policies is a shambles. Yet that is what happened when
   the Court of Auditors recently declared that the European Union's
   common fisheries policy (CFP), under which the European Commission
   sets maximum allowable catches, does not work. The auditors found that
   the actual level of catches is "unknown", thanks to gaps, errors and
   "mis-statements" (ie, fibs) in data sent to Brussels by national
   governments. Most rule-breakers are not caught; those caught are
   seldom punished; and the few who are punished face trifling fines.
   Schemes to reduce overcapacity in fishing fleets have been subverted.
   This has severe effects. A survey of the north-east Atlantic found 81%
   of fish stocks to be dangerously over-exploited.

   So why does the commission welcome this damning report? Because
   enforcing the CFP is largely a job for national governments. That
   turns the report into ammunition in a fight between Brussels and
   national capitals over who is to blame. One commission official
   insists that "on controls, it is the member states' fault." The list
   of cheats features Italy ("really bad"), Poland ("bad") and Spain ("a
   bad reputation round the world, for hidden compartments, illegal nets,
   the lot"). It also includes those who most criticise the CFP, such as
   the Dutch and British (Scotland was notorious for "black" landings,
   but has improved after nasty scandals). It is the same with
   over-fishing. Each autumn the commission proposes new limits. But the
   actual quotas are fixed every Christmas by national ministers in a
   sleepless, two-day marathon.

   The annual fisheries council (this year's begins on December 17th) is
   described by one official as "the sickest thing about the CFP". It
   even has its own, squalid traditions. Before the council, the
   commission proposes quotas that are larger than those recommended by
   its scientific advisers. National ministers then expand the quotas
   once again. In recent years, the final numbers have been 50% higher
   than the scientists advised. And then national fishing fleets break
   even these higher quotas.

   To most Eurocrats, the problem is selfish national interests, and the
   solution is tougher EU-wide controls. The CFP may be flawed, but if
   countries parcelled out the fish among themselves there would be none
   left, says one official. "We'd be discussing where to import fish
   from." To Eurosceptics, the blame rests with the EU: the CFP has
   forfeited the confidence of fishermen and the public (who are
   disgusted that quotas force fishermen to chuck dead fish back into the
   sea). Their answer is to keep Brussels out. British sceptics even
   murmur, eyes a-gleam, about Royal Navy warships patrolling to keep out
   foreign interlopers. (They are less good at explaining how British
   fishermen could stop the neighbours from over-fishing in non-British
   waters.)

   National governments like to spread the blame around too. Some even
   admit that their fishermen cheat. A 2004 report by the British prime
   minister's strategy unit called low levels of compliance in the
   industry "endemic". But the prize for unintentional comedy goes to
   France, whose officials once blamed the fish for a huge court fine
   slapped on French authorities for allowing illegal landings. (The ploy
   turned on a daring, if grammatically correct, use of reflexive verbs,
   so that a ministerial statement blamed undersized hake that se
   pêchaient et se vendaient, suggesting the fish had fished and sold
   themselves.)

   Apart from the fish-blaming French, everybody has a point. The
   behaviour of national governments is simply the tragedy of the commons
   writ large. One official admits that discarding dead cod because they
   breach quotas is "obscene". The commission is studying the policy of
   Norway, where all fish must be landed, and over-quota fish are bought
   by the state for a modest sum. Clever nets could help in southerly
   waters, where dozens of species swim together. Officials also grumble
   about hypocrisy: fishermen quietly discard lots of fish so as to pack
   their holds only with the most valuable. Many fishermen cheat because
   they think the scientists are wrong, or because everyone else is, or
   because they cannot make a living otherwise.

   The force of the market

   In the end, though, arguments about how to control national fishing
   fleets miss the biggest point. A bolder reform would create a
   pan-European market in fishing rights, in which efficient skippers
   could buy, sell and rent tradable quotas (used in places like New
   Zealand, and also as domestic policy tools in parts of Europe). The
   resulting Euro-fleet would be smaller and easier to contain. It would
   also need fewer controls, as owners of big expensive boats have more
   incentive to preserve stocks.

   A Spanish official says that his country, with a competitive fishing
   industry, would support a single European market, at least for
   offshore fleets. The Dutch might be interested. Unfortunately, that is
   about it. Even the British are protectionist about fish, forcing
   foreigners who want to buy their quotas to maintain a lifetime
   "economic link" with Britain by hiring British crews, or landing fish
   in British ports.

   Politicians' heads tell them that fishing accounts for less than 1% of
   the EU's economy. Their hearts say it is a brave, dangerous business,
   bringing life to isolated ports where other jobs are hard to come by.
   Emotion helps to explain a (mad) founding principle of the CFP:
   "relative stability". This means that the share of fish stocks doled
   out to each country should be stable in relative terms, so that no
   national fleet loses ground to any other. This rigidity has blocked
   serious consolidation, as member countries cling to every last quota
   they can get.

   Europeans need to stop blaming each other for the failures of the
   current CFP. Instead, they should ponder the example of one of the
   EU's few uncontested triumphs, the single market, and apply its
   lessons to the seas. That would be rational. It might even be good for
   the fish.


   A cross-dresser's troubles with a resurgent Islam

                                                                    Tempo
                                                                    Tempo

                                                 Razor-sharp and petulant


   FOR more than 30 years a cross-dresser with a razor-sharp wit and a
   merciless tongue has won the affection of millions of Turks. And his
   success on television has been vaunted as evidence of the tolerance of
   Turkey's unique mix of Islam and secularism.

   But for the past year Huysuz Virjin (the Petulant Virgin) has been
   replaced by his less exotic self, Seyfi Dursunoglu, in a show aired on
   a private television channel. The 76-year-old entertainer claims to
   have been forced to trade in his trademark blonde wig, silk stockings
   and sexy gowns for more conventional male garb after Turkey's
   broadcasting watchdog, the RTUK, put pressure on television stations
   to ban cross-dressing.

   RTUK denies such censorship. But Mr Dursunoglu insists that he is the
   victim of a creeping conservatism that he believes has infected the
   country ever since the mildly Islamist Justice and Development (AK)
   party came to power five years ago. Although he was allowed to appear
   in drag for a special new-year programme, he says that "as a
   performer, I am no longer as free". Similar concerns about artistic
   freedom and secularism were aired last month by Fazil Say, a Turkish
   pianist, who accused the AK party of being unfriendly.

   Debate over whether Turkey is veering off the determinedly secular
   course laid down by Ataturk has intensified ever since AK was returned
   to power for a second five-year term in last July's parliamentary
   election, when it took 47% of the vote. Most Turks are plainly unfazed
   by such fears. Recent opinion polls suggest that support for AK has
   risen to a record 52%. "There is no evidence of a systematic plan by
   the government to make Turkey more Islamic," concedes Nilufer Narli,
   an Istanbul-based sociologist. Yet she adds that "expressions of
   Islamic piety are becoming increasingly overt, indeed a vehicle for
   networking and social mobility."

   Awkwardly for AK, an openly gay fashion designer has emerged as its
   most passionate defender. Cemil Ipekci has declared that AK is the
   best government to have ruled the country in the history of the
   republic and that, had he been born a woman, "I would have covered my
   head [ie, Islamic-style]." Pressed to explain, a demure Mr Ipekci says
   "I am a conservative homosexual."


   The 2008 budget gives companies a break but leaves spending too high

   IN ITALY, Romano Prodi once mused, it can be hard "to distinguish the
   real issue--about which nobody ever talks--from the fictitious one
   which is fought over ferociously." Rarely has that been truer than of
   the debate over the draft 2008 budget presented by Mr Prodi's
   centre-left government. Ironically the person responsible for the
   confusion is Mr Prodi himself.

   On September 29th he emerged from an 11-hour cabinet meeting to
   announce that the low-paid would get reduced property taxes and either
   an income-tax break or a cash handout. But he scarcely mentioned the
   most significant measure: a cut in the corporate-tax rate from 33% to
   27.5%. The budget also trims a regional business tax. Together, these
   may boost the economy without unleashing inflation, which might flow
   from income-tax cuts of the sort being urged by the opposition.

   For public consumption, it is being said that this apparent giveaway
   to industry will not cost a cent, because the budget also widens the
   corporate-tax base by scrapping many tax breaks. But officials
   privately admit that this is nonsense. The corporate-tax rate is to
   fall by a sixth, which will soak up much of the extra EUR18 billion
   ($25 billion) that Mr Prodi's finance minister, Tommaso
   Padoa-Schioppa, has raked in by squeezing tax evaders.

   The reason nobody admits this is to avoid upsetting Italy's trade
   unions and their allies in government, who could bring down Mr Prodi's
   shaky coalition. The left has already forced him to water down pension
   reforms. The unions have secured a modest EUR700m package of welfare
   reforms that they are now putting to a vote of their members. A
   rejection would be disastrous. So this is not a good moment to be
   highlighting what many Italians might see as a bosses' bonanza.

   Mr Padoa-Schioppa claims that his budget will reduce the deficit from
   2.4% of GDP this year to just 2.2% in 2008, less than in Britain and
   France. He also expects the public debt to shrink from 105% to 103.5%
   of GDP. This is not enough for the rating agencies, which have
   grumbled that he ought to do more to repair Italy's public finances.
   But Mr Padoa-Schioppa has reversed a trend of rising deficits and debt
   only by inflicting real pain--not only by improving tax collection but
   also by raising tax rates. The government had to give a sign to
   payroll employees, who cannot dodge because their tax is deducted at
   source, that there are benefits from the clampdown on the less honest
   of their self-employed peers.

   A more pertinent criticism of the 2008 budget is that it again shrinks
   from spending cuts. The public sector takes over half of Italy's GDP,
   and it spends it badly. Waste, corruption, overstaffing and
   underperformance make for a huge burden on the economy. It is an issue
   about which Mr Padoa-Schioppa cares passionately. Last month, his
   department sent a "green book" to ministers detailing where they could
   make cuts. But that would pit them against trade unions and other
   vested interests. It is perhaps too much to ask of politicians with a
   single-vote majority in the upper house of parliament.


   The significance of France's military base in the Gulf 

                                                              Alphafrance

                                Alphafrance

              Down the Champs Elysées, and out into the world


   FRANCE'S announcement this week that it is to open a military base in
   the United Arab Emirates could mark a strategic shift in its defence
   policy. It will be France's first permanent base in the Gulf, in a
   country where it has no colonial ties. By drawing its 400 troops from
   an existing base in Djibouti, it hints at a withdrawal from France's
   traditional African backyard. Moreover, coming in the middle of
   France's first full defence review for 14 years, it suggests a radical
   rethinking of the country's defence and security policy.

   The future of French overseas military bases is one element under
   review. France now has around 5,000 soldiers in three permanent bases
   in Africa: Senegal, Gabon and Djibouti. It also has 2,600 soldiers on
   a peacekeeping mission in Côte d'Ivoire, and 1,100 on the ground in
   Chad soon to be joined by another 2,000 as part of a French-led
   European Union force. Ties of history keep French soldiers in Africa.
   But President Nicolas Sarkozy has told the defence review team to
   "construct the security and defence of tomorrow according to needs,
   not habits".

   Mr Sarkozy has pre-empted his own review's conclusions, not due till
   March, by announcing the Emirates base, just across the Gulf from
   Iran. It shows that the French are ready to move outside their
   traditional sphere and to match their military presence to strategic
   interests rather than colonial links. Although the base will be small,
   it also suggests that Mr Sarkozy, who has taken a tougher line on Iran
   than his predecessor, may be ready to take a bigger part in
   stabilising the region.

   There could be more surprises to come. Jean-Claude Mallet, head of the
   defence review, says it aims to define a "new doctrine" of security
   and defence. Mr Sarkozy has told him nothing should be taboo. A white
   paper is due in the spring and legislation is planned by the summer.

   One idea is that France should set up a National Defence and Security
   Council, loosely modelled on the American version, to co-ordinate
   domestic and foreign security. Another suggestion will be a commitment
   to maintain defence spending at about 2% of GDP, roughly the same as
   in Britain. Despite defence-spending increases, French military types
   complain about the lack of transport aircraft and the shoddy state of
   the helicopter fleet.

   Perhaps the trickiest issue is France's role in NATO. It is a member,
   and participates in many NATO operations: one-third of the 10,000
   French soldiers on missions abroad are under a NATO banner; a French
   general commands the NATO force in Kosovo. But since de Gaulle pulled
   France out of the alliance's integrated military command in 1966, it
   has had no say in NATO defence planning. Mr Sarkozy, who likes to make
   a splash and please the Americans in equal measure, has hinted
   strongly that France could soon rejoin fully.

   Not, however, without one key condition: more progress on European
   defence. Mr Sarkozy, in short, wants the British to back European
   defence properly, and the Americans to stop distrusting this on the
   ground that it may be a rival to NATO.

   The trouble is that Gordon Brown, Britain's prime minister, is in no
   hurry to pursue anything that has the slightest whiff of deeper
   European integration, especially with the EU's reform treaty still
   before the British parliament for ratification. Relations between Mr
   Sarkozy and Mr Brown are businesslike rather than warm. They may not
   be helped by the ostentatious love-in between Mr Sarkozy and Tony
   Blair, who spoke (in French) to rapturous applause at an event
   organised by the president's centre-right party last weekend. The
   French have found it hard to drum up support for the EU force in Chad:
   neither the British, who are stretched in Iraq and Afghanistan, nor
   the Germans are sending any troops.

   French officials are frustrated by the lack of British response to
   their hints about NATO. But it is hard to see room for compromise.
   Something less than a full-blown EU defence headquarters would not
   satisfy the French; anything too grand or NATO-duplicating would not
   get past the British. As one French official puts it, however,
   "Sarkozy will not accept no response. If he doesn't get agreement,
   he'll go somewhere else." There is even talk of dealing directly with
   America, doubtless pleased with France's planned Emirates base. But it
   is hard to see that working in America's fraught election year.

   rights reserved.

   IFRAME:
   [3]http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1

   [activity;src=1245986;type=econo981;cat=e12eu219;ord=1?]

   IFRAME:
   [4]http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;
   cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

References

   1. http://ad.doubleclick.net/jump/main.economist.com/printer;pos=1;sect=world;sect=p_top;sect=d_top;sect=world_p_top;sect=world_d_top;sz=468x60;tile=1;dcopt=ist;ord=27672660?
   2. http://www.economist.com/index.cfm
   3. http://switch.atdmt.com/iaction/oy6ats_EconomistcomLandingPage_1
   4. http://ad.n2434.doubleclick.net/activity;src=1113415;type=2ndli341;cat=world582;ord=1;num=1?

   France looks forward to more controversial reforms and more
   protests--all at a time when the European economy is slowing

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters


   THE economic mood may be souring fast, but Nicolas Sarkozy still
   managed to bring some festive cheer to his electorate over the holiday
   period. His liaison with Carla Bruni, a Franco-Italian singer and
   one-time supermodel, whom he took on an official-trip-cum-holiday to
   Egypt, was splashed on every magazine cover and seemed to fill the
   airwaves for days on end. But even the latest chapter in the
   presidential family soap opera may not be enough to distract the
   voters from harsher times ahead: a fresh batch of reforms against a
   backdrop of rising prices and weakening economic growth.

   "Despite the obstacles, despite the difficulties, I will do what I
   said I would," vowed Mr Sarkozy in his televised new year's message
   this week. The diary of reforms planned for the coming months is
   certainly full. January 15th is the (revised) deadline for trade
   unions and employers to reach agreement on how to loosen France's
   rigid labour laws. Under discussion, among other matters, are the
   country's tough redundancy rules and highly protected work contracts,
   which have discouraged job creation. The idea is to secure more
   flexibility for employers, in return for greater efforts to improve
   training and salaries for employees. But the talks have been
   predictably difficult, not least because Mr Sarkozy has let it be
   known that, if no deal is reached by the new deadline, the government
   will legislate anyway.

   François Fillon, his prime minister, has just added two extra items to
   the labour-market negotiations. One is to make the financing of the
   unions more transparent. The other concerns working time, which is
   limited by the notorious 35-hour week introduced by a Socialist
   government in 2000-02. The government has tried to lessen this
   constraint by making any time worked over 35 hours free of tax and
   social-insurance charges. So far, two-fifths of firms employing more
   than ten people have made use of this rule. But overtime rates must
   still be paid. Mr Fillon now says that working time itself should be
   discussed, in return for better pay, and that it should be negotiated
   company by company. The parties have been given until the end of March
   to reach an agreement.

   The coming months will also bring a broader review of pension rules.
   The pension reform that triggered a crippling nine-day strike last
   November touched only the 1.6m people in "special regimes": train
   drivers, railwaymen, gas and electricity workers and others entitled
   to a full pension after 37.5 years'-worth of contributions, against 40
   for everybody else. Now that the special-regime workers have accepted
   a longer contribution period, the overall rules are up for review. At
   the very least, the period is likely to go up to 41 years, but this
   change will be fiercely contested. A big demonstration is already
   planned for January 22nd. On top of all these plans, there are
   proposals to merge the job-placement and benefit agencies, to make
   certain company-tax breaks conditional on pay rises for the
   lowest-paid, to introduce a back-to-work benefit to make work pay more
   than welfare, and to break the stranglehold of the big five unions on
   worker representation.

   Will any of these measures help to lift France's growth rate from its
   recent meagre average of 2% a year? Judged by the standards of the
   Chirac years, when successive governments backed away from reforms in
   the face of street demonstrations and strikes, they constitute a
   veritable blast of reform. Before Mr Sarkozy came along, nobody dared
   to touch the special regimes, for instance, nor to attack the
   cherished 35-hour week.

   Yet a closer look at the Sarkozy method reveals some shortcomings. The
   first is a tendency to give ground to secure a headline-grabbing deal.
   Consider the reform of the special regimes, which Mr Sarkozy has
   presented as a done deal. In reality, despite acceptance of the
   "progressive lengthening" of the contribution period to 40 years, the
   only final agreement struck so far is at the RATP, which runs the
   Paris metro and bus system. In return for 40 years of contributions,
   it has agreed among other things to increase pay grades on which
   pension benefits are calculated. Yet without knowing the details
   (which the RATP will not divulge, on the ground that this is an
   internal matter) it is impossible to judge the net benefit.

   The second weakness is an instinct to micro-manage. Take the 35-hour
   week. Rather than just getting rid of the legal limit altogether, Mr
   Sarkozy has put in place a web of new rules and incentives to
   encourage everybody to ignore it. One is the tax break on overtime.
   Another is the request to bosses and unions to negotiate their own
   working-time deals. A third is a plan to allow employees who already
   work for more than 35 hours a week to cash in the days off that they
   get in return. Some companies give 22 such days, on top of normal paid
   holiday; vast stocks of these have built up over the years. Although
   employers like the idea of reducing these holiday promises, they will
   be less pleased to be invited to foot the bill. The upshot may turn
   out to be the death of the 35-hour week, but it is a mightily
   complicated way to go about it.

   The third worry over Mr Sarkozy is his attitude towards public
   finances. He has already postponed from 2010 until 2012 the
   government's promise to balance its budget. In 2008 the deficit is
   expected to be 2.3% of GDP, the widest gap in the euro zone (though
   less than in Britain). In the third quarter of 2007, public debt still
   amounted to 65.9% of GDP. Although Mr Sarkozy has stepped back from
   the gratuitous handouts that some observers had feared, there is a
   continuous struggle within the government between those arguing for
   tighter fiscal control and those content to spend come what may.

   The biggest problem, though, is that Mr Sarkozy is hoping for the
   first results of his reforms to come through at just the moment when
   the global credit crunch is hitting home, even in the euro area (see
   [4]article). Mr Sarkozy had hoped that his autumn "fiscal shock",
   worth nearly EUR11 billion ($15 billion) in 2008, would boost
   confidence and accelerate growth. But France has not felt it. Thanks
   in part to rising oil and food prices, household confidence has fallen
   sharply since September, and the French are feeling the squeeze on
   their pockets. In polls, they repeatedly cite "purchasing power" as
   their biggest worry. In December Mr Sarkozy's approval rating fell to
   49%, according to TNS-Sofres, a pollster, from a high of 65% in July.

   All of which is palpably frustrating for the French president, who
   sometimes talks of economic growth as if he thinks it can be bullied
   into doing better. He has repeatedly said that he wants GDP growth of
   3%, declaring that "I will not wait for growth, I will go and find
   it." Although the government forecasts 2-2.5% growth for 2008, most
   economists reckon it will be 1.7-1.8%. The restless Mr Sarkozy may
   find he has embarked on a long search.


   A former Russian prime minister reflects on the Kremlin today

   VIKTOR CHERNOMYRDIN, Russia's ambassador to Ukraine, is no
   Western-style democrat. Nor does this (now wealthy) founder of Gazprom
   and ex-prime minister pretend to be. Yet behind his tough Soviet-style
   exterior is a shrewd and idiosyncratic politician, who provides a
   refreshing burst of colour in a grey political landscape.

   Once termed syntactically challenged, he rarely completes sentences.
   When he does they turn into folklore, the best example of which ("we
   hoped for the best, but it turned out like always") is now a
   catchphrase in Russia. His description of the situation in Ukraine is
   equally apt: "It has never been like this and now it is exactly the
   same again." Many Ukrainians would agree.

   Mr Chernomyrdin deplores the condescending tone of the Russian media
   towards Ukraine. "These people have no idea of what is going on in
   Ukraine. We must show more respect--it will do us good. Boris Yeltsin
   understood this and never allowed himself to take this kind of tone."
   This is not the only thing that sets Yeltsin's former prime minister
   apart from today's Kremlin. "I don't quite understand the role of the
   government in Russia. What is it doing? Yeltsin and I had a clear
   division: he was in charge of politics and I was managing the economy.
   He never interfered."

   As prime minister, he chose people for their abilities not their
   views. "After work they could be whoever they wanted, but during the
   day they had to be professionals." Few liberal reforms in Russia
   happened without his support. In 1995 he negotiated on the phone with
   Shamil Basayev, a Chechen terrorist who took over 1,200 hostages in a
   hospital in the southern town of Budyonnovsk. "It was the most
   important thing for the country to understand that the new government
   cared about its people," he says. Mr Chernomyrdin's intervention saved
   hundreds of lives and led to peace talks with the rebels. It was a far
   cry from how the government (mis)handled the 2002 theatre siege in
   Moscow and the 2004 hostage crisis in Beslan.

   The formidable Mr Chernomyrdin took Yeltsin's death hard. "It is like
   with parents: while they are alive you feel you have your back
   covered, and when they go you feel you are on your own."


                                                                    Gamma

                                   Gamma

   Russia's wars in Chechnya, which the Kremlin says are over, have
   shaped the country that Russians and the world are now living with


   LIKE a high-end bar mitzvah, only with more weapons, the inauguration
   of Ramzan Kadyrov was held in a giant white marquee, in the grounds of
   one of his palaces, near the Chechen city of Gudermes. The
   guests--Russian officers who were once his enemies, rival warlords
   squirming in dress uniforms, muftis in lambskin hats--brought
   sycophantic portraits, cars and other gifts fit for a Caucasian
   potentate. As his pet lions gnawed on their bones outside, Chechnya's
   new president made a speech, as short and nervous as a schoolboy's, in
   which he vowed to continue the reconstruction of his wretched
   semi-autonomous Russian republic.

   Everyone applauded--and everyone knew the ceremony was irrelevant. Mr
   Kadyrov has in effect ruled Chechnya since his father Akhmad, also its
   president, was blown up in 2004. His authority is based on violence,
   and the backing of Vladimir Putin, Russia's president. Mr Putin
   levered Ramzan into his father's post soon after he reached 30, the
   minimum age for the job.

   Superficially, Mr Kadyrov deserves it. Apartment blocks are adorned
   with cultish posters of Ramzan: with his father; riding a horse; being
   awarded his Hero of Russia medal by Mr Putin. Behind the posters, many
   buildings are still pockmarked or gaping with shell holes. But many
   others have been rebuilt on Mr Kadyrov's watch. "He helps everyone,"
   says a woman in Grozny, just returned from exile to a refurbished
   building near Minutka Square, once the site of savage fighting.
   Another Grozny resident says gratefully that Mr Kadyrov's men repaired
   all the battle-smashed windows in his neighbourhood.

   So the Kremlin has some evidence for its assertion that the two wars
   fought to quell Chechen separatism--the first rashly launched by Boris
   Yeltsin in 1994, the second beginning in 1999--are now over. Chechnya
   is still part of Russia, and any other would-be secessionists have
   seen the bloody price the Chechens have paid: perhaps 100,000
   civilians dead, and many more displaced.

   But what kind of Russia is it part of? War with Russia has deformed
   Chechnya. But perhaps more than anything else in Russia's post-Soviet
   history, the forgotten Chechen wars have shaped the angry and
   authoritarian country Russia has become.

   Mr Putin made Mr Kadyrov president; but Chechnya helped to make Mr
   Putin himself president of Russia. Were it not for the air of
   emergency engendered by the second Chechen war, which began when Mr
   Putin was prime minister, the lightening rise of this obscure ex-KGB
   officer would have met more resistance. The war, and the string of
   mysterious apartment bombings that preceded it, brought the FSB (the
   renamed security service that Mr Putin briefly led) back to the centre
   of Russian politics. And it has been the cause, or the pretext, for
   many of the hard-line policies of the Putin presidency.

   Russia's gathering suspicion towards the West can be traced in part to
   the autumn of 2004, and Beslan. It was in that town that terrorists
   demanding Russia withdraw from Chechnya, and a botched rescue attempt,
   killed over 330 people, most of them children. Mr Putin used the
   catastrophe as an excuse to change parliamentary rules and scrap
   elections for regional governors (who are now all, like Mr Kadyrov,
   appointed by the Kremlin). And he lashed out at foreign powers which,
   he said, were scheming to weaken Russia.

   Whether or not he really believed that knee-jerk explanation, the
   aftermath of Beslan embittered Mr Putin's relations with the United
   States and Europe (along with the "orange revolution" in Ukraine soon
   afterwards, which the Kremlin saw as a Western-backed coup). He had
   sought to portray Chechnya as another front in the "war on terror",
   and was outraged when Western diplomats questioned his post-Beslan
   political reforms and Russian policy in the north Caucasus. He became
   ever more concerned to counteract American power; Chechnya also helped
   to determine one of his methods, namely Russia's renewed courtship of
   its Soviet-era Arab allies. Dabbling in the Middle East--fraternising
   with Hamas, prevaricating on Iran--offers a chance to assuage Muslim
   anger over Chechnya, at the same time as frustrating the Americans.

   And the Chechen tragedy helps to explain why Mr Putin's neurotic
   bluster plays so well among ordinary Russians. Their country may not
   be a proper democracy, but the Kremlin is still nervously responsive
   to shifts in the national mood. Partly because of Chechnya, that mood
   has become increasingly xenophobic.

   Perhaps out of an old solidarity, says one Chechen who has lived in St
   Petersburg and Moscow, Russians were sympathetic to Chechnya's plight
   during the first war. Few are today, especially since the conflict
   leapt up to Moscow itself, via multiple terrorist bombings and the
   theatre siege of 2002, in which 130 hostages died. Alexei Levinson, a
   sociologist, charitably sees today's antagonism towards Chechens as a
   displaced form of guilt. Inside, he speculates, Russians know the
   Chechens have long been wronged, from tsarist colonisation, through
   Stalin's deportation of the entire Chechen nation in 1944, to the
   atrocities that untrammelled media coverage of the first war conveyed
   to the nation. Whatever its cause, the fear and suspicion are fierce,
   and have fed a widening loathing of foreigners.

   No limits

   But even as it elevated Russia's spooks, and puffed up their paranoia,
   Chechnya demonstrated and contributed to the chronic weakening of
   another once-mighty institution, the army. Before the first war
   started, Yeltsin's defence minister boasted that Grozny would be taken
   in two hours. Two years later, with the army exposed as woefully
   trained and equipped, it ended in humiliating defeat.

   When the second one began--now with the Kadyrovs switching sides to
   fight alongside the Russians--the brutal tactics were more effective.
   The atrocities were less well publicised, especially after the
   forcible takeover of NTV, Russia's last independent national
   television station. Chechnya was thus a factor in the first big
   skirmish of another of Mr Putin's campaigns, against media freedom.
   Today, real information about life (and death) in Chechnya comes from
   human-rights groups and a few brave journalists, of whom there are
   fewer still after last year's (unsolved) murder of Anna Politkovskaya.

   Chechnya, as Russian soldiers put it, became a place "without limits".
   Extra pay for combat (real or invented), and the kickbacks required to
   claim it, were only the most mundane form of graft. There was also
   kidnapping, the sale of stolen weapons to the enemy and enough oil to
   kill for. The benighted Chechens were not the only victims of the
   amorality. Some Russian officers were alleged to have sold their own
   conscripts to the rebels. Wild abuse of power became normal. Sergei,
   from Siberia, was shot in the back by a drunken officer in Chechnya in
   2003--because, he says, of a row over a woman. Sergei, who now walks
   with a cane, says serving in Chechnya was like "sticking my head in a
   refuse pit".

   This depravity and callousness--each year, more Russian soldiers die
   outside combat than Americans die in Iraq--has helped to generate
   wholesale dodging of Russia's biannual draft. (Conscripts are no
   longer supposed to go to Chechnya, but many still do, says Valentina
   Melnikova, of the Union of Soldiers' Mothers.) Families who can afford
   to save their sons from service do so by paying corrupt recruitment
   officers and doctors. One result, as a top air-force officer recently
   complained, is that those who are drafted are often already sick,
   malnourished or addicted. Another is the exacerbation of social
   tensions in what is a perilously unequal country.

   As with all wars, the starkest toll of Chechnya's are the dead, who as
   well as the slaughtered Chechens officially include around 10,000
   federal troops, and unofficially many more. Then there are the tens of
   thousands of injured, such as Dima, who lives with his parents in a
   grotty apartment on the outskirts of Moscow. In December 1999, Dima
   was shot in the chest in the village of Alkhan-Yurt. He heard the air
   rushing out of his lungs; then he was wounded again. He lay bleeding,
   eating snow, and preparing to die, but lived after a doctor bet his
   colleagues two bottles of vodka that he could be saved. Two pieces of
   shrapnel stayed in his back. "I lost my health forever when I was 20,"
   says Dima, who was incapacitated for two years; terrible years, says
   his mother. Alkhan-Yurt, meanwhile, became infamous for the butchery
   and rape committed there by the Russians soon afterwards.

   Still, Dima, now at college, is relatively lucky. Many of the 1m-plus
   Chechnya veterans came back alcoholic, unemployable and anti-social,
   suffering what soon became known as "the Chechen syndrome". This
   widespread experience of army mistreatment and no-limits warfare has
   contributed to Russia's extraordinary level of violent crime: the
   murder rate is 20 times western Europe's. But the cruelty is also
   reproducing itself in a less well-known and more organised way.

   As well as the army, thousands of policemen across Russia have served
   in Chechnya. Many return with disciplinary and psychological problems,
   says Tanya Lokshina of Demos, a human-rights group. They also bring
   back extreme tactics that they proceed to apply at home, such as the
   sorts of cordons and mass detentions deployed against peaceful
   protesters in Moscow and St Petersburg in April. Torture, concluded a
   recent report by Amnesty International, is endemic among Russian
   police. It is often used to extract confessions, but not always: a
   survey by Russian researchers found that most victims of police
   violence thought it had been perpetrated for fun.

   Tail wags dog

   Is the war truly over, as the Kremlin says it is? Despite the loss of
   most of their leaders--and somewhat incredibly, considering Chechnya's
   tiny size--an unknown number of insurgents are still fighting for what
   they call the Islamic republic of Ichkeria. They are still killing the
   local forces, under Mr Kadyrov, to whom most of the fighting has been
   outsourced. But Russians are still dying too.

   So are Chechen civilians. Grigory Shvedov, of [4]Caucasian Knot, an
   independent news service, says the number of "disappearances" has
   fallen dramatically in the past few years; but they still happen with
   scandalous frequency. The Council of Europe has repeatedly rebuked Mr
   Kadyrov and Russia over persistent torture and illegal detention. The
   decade of trauma, says a Chechen psychologist, has resulted in a spike
   in suicides, especially of people in their 30s whose lives have been
   derailed.

   In Grozny's Kadyrov Square a young man complains that there is no work
   outside the government and security services. It is an open secret
   that Mr Kadyrov's reconstruction push is funded through extorted
   contributions from those lucky enough to have jobs. The vast sums sent
   by Moscow for the purpose have largely vanished into thin air.

   And instability and violence have skipped across Chechnya's borders to
   the neighbouring north Caucasus republics, themselves cursed by
   poverty, ethnic tensions and government that is bad even by Russian
   standards. The grimmest is Ingushetia, where Husen Mutaliyev was once
   a used-car salesman and father of a baby girl. Since a spell learning
   Arabic in Egypt, says his brother Hasan, the police had harassed
   Husen. Early on March 15th, Hasan says, around 20 masked men seized
   Husen from his house. "We are Putin's soldiers," was all they offered
   by way of identification. They beat him, then shot him when he tried
   to escape. His body was returned the next day. Around 15,000 Chechen
   refugees are still living squalidly in Ingushetia, in train wagons,
   warehouses and goods containers. Some are still afraid; some have
   nothing left in Chechnya to go back to.

   One fear is that the local resentments such treatment provokes could
   eventually join up into a pan-Caucasian insurgency, intensified by the
   radical Islam that the wars have helped to foster. The biggest risk,
   however, may be Mr Kadyrov himself. At 30, he is ruler of what Dmitri
   Trenin of the Carnegie Moscow Centre describes as a "medieval
   khanate", within a country that is still more an empire than a modern
   state. He has appointed a regional government comprised largely of
   ex-rebels like himself. If he lives--and for all their theatrical
   obeisance, some of Chechnya's other strongmen loathe him, as do many
   Russian officers--what more might he want?

   Mr Putin, his partner and patron, is due to leave office in 2008. Mr
   Kadyrov is already testing the limits of his authority; though Moscow
   denies it, his men sometimes scuffle with federal troops. One day, it
   might even suit the Kremlin to encourage this truculence. For now, it
   needs a stable Chechnya to reassure Russians ahead of next year's
   presidential election; in the future, it might again need an unstable
   one.

   Like his own political career, the country Mr Putin will bequeath has
   been formed by its long, coarsening Chechen misadventure. Mr Putin's
   Russia has become a sort of tamer version of Mr Kadyrov's Chechnya. In
   both, improvements in living standards have won the approval of
   populations who have come to expect tragically little from their
   leaders--a mended window, say, or a pension that is paid on time. But
   government in both rests on power rather than the law, and has
   oppressed too many while improving the lot of most. The big question
   for Russia, Chechnya and the world is whether the symbiotic reigns of
   the Chechen warlord and the Russian spook are necessary codas to
   tumultuous times, or the incubators of yet more instability and pain.


   An election is called, emergency rule is ended, but the damage lingers


   TO A visitor who has not seen Georgia since the "rose revolution" of
   2003, the changes are stunning. Grand buildings ruined by war and
   neglect have been restored. Where there was night-time gloom there is
   now light. Roads have been repaired and chronic energy shortages are a
   thing of the past. Money is being poured into infrastructure and
   schools.

   In Batumi, which in 2003 was outside central-government control, new
   hotels sprout everywhere. In the past two years Armenian tourists have
   returned. One reason is that, after the rose revolution, President
   Mikheil Saakashvili sacked all the traffic police, who had previously
   done little except extract cash from anybody on the roads. "It used to
   cost $100 in bribes to drive here from Armenia," says Levan
   Varshalomidze, head of Batumi's local government. This year the
   Georgian economy should grow by 10%, despite a Russian economic
   blockade.

   This all makes recent events in Georgia more depressing. On November
   7th the government cleared opposition protesters from Tbilisi's main
   street after five days of demonstrations. The move went wrong as the
   opposition called in reinforcements, provoking riot police into
   liberal use of batons and tear-gas. A state of emergency was declared
   and opposition television stations were taken off the air. The next
   day Mr Saakashvili declared that he would hold a snap presidential
   election on January 5th. "You wanted early elections," he said. "Have
   them even earlier!" This week the government announced the lifting of
   the state of emergency, too.

   At the start of the protests, Salome Zourabichvili, a former French
   ambassador who became Georgia's foreign minister before being sacked
   by Mr Saakashvili, said that the government liked to show
   reconstruction to foreigners to mislead them. "We are living in a
   Potemkin country," she scoffed. This is unfair, but life is hard for
   most Georgians. Former industrial towns such as Zestaponi and Kutaisi
   remain devastated by the collapse of the Soviet Union. The countryside
   is dotted with skeletal remnants of factories. One of Georgia's
   biggest exports is scrap metal.

   Expectations of Mr Saakashvili were so high that they could only be
   dashed. Alex Rondeli, an analyst, suggests that part of the problem is
   that no politician who wants to stay in office can be truly honest
   about how long rebuilding Georgia is going to take. "It will take
   time," he says, "more than one generation." Mr Saakashvili and his
   friends have been tough and acted quickly, but in the process they
   have made enemies. Many claim that Mr Saakashvili has let power go to
   his head.

   If he is no longer half as popular at home (and abroad) as he once
   was, it still seems likely that he will win the presidential election.
   Badri Patarkatsishvili, a tycoon, has declared that he will run. The
   opposition is furious because this may divide the anti-Saakashvili
   vote. According to David Usupashvili, leader of the Republican Party,
   the aim of the ten-party opposition coalition, who have chosen Levan
   Gachechiladze, a former businessman, as their candidate, is to scrap
   the present presidential system. "We are not searching for a better
   Saakashvili," he says.

   The opposition may suffer from claims that some of its leaders were in
   contact with Russian spies during the protests. Russia still backs two
   breakaway Georgian enclaves, Abkhazia and South Ossetia. As Giga
   Bokeria, an associate of Mr Saakashvili's, notes, "Moscow's declared
   goal here is regime change." That is why European and American attacks
   on the government's crackdown on the Tbilisi protests have caused
   irritation. Outsiders report that Mr Saakashvili is in high spirits,
   untroubled by the criticisms, which he brushes aside as ill-informed.
   Mr Rondeli notes of Russia that "we are in a cage with a cruel dog who
   is biting us. We are asking Europe to open the cage and let us out but
   all they say is: `be nice to the dog.'"


   Doubts still hang over plans to form a united centre-left party

   FORTY years ago, two young men entered the elite Scuola Normale
   Superiore in Pisa: Fabio Mussi, son of a Tuscan steelworker, and
   Massimo D'Alema, son of a Communist lawmaker. The two formed a
   legendary comradeship, campaigning hard for the Italian Communist
   Party (PCI). When the PCI was wound up in 1991, both joined its
   successor, now known as the Left Democrats (DS). But even as Mr
   D'Alema, now foreign minister, edged closer to the ideas of Bill
   Clinton and Tony Blair, his friend stayed loyal to his blue-collar
   origins and became leader of the farthest left DS faction.

   On April 20th their friendship snapped. Appalled by the DS's plans to
   fuse with Democracy and Freedom (Margherita), the next-biggest party
   in Romano Prodi's centre-left government, Mr Mussi said he would quit.
   At a congress in Florence, he moved delegates to tears as he bid
   farewell. Mr D'Alema looked on impassively. The congress should be the
   DS's last. In the autumn, primaries are planned to choose a leader for
   the newly united Democratic Party.

   If the new party emerges, it will be Italy's biggest, and it may give
   Mr Prodi the political base he now lacks. But questions remain
   (besides the obvious risk that the birth may be aborted if the
   government collapses first). One is whether Mr Prodi, who promises to
   step down at the end of his present term, will be elected leader. He
   came fourth in a recent poll of voters; first choice was Walter
   Veltroni, mayor of Rome.

   Another question is where the new party will fit internationally. DS
   leaders, who dropped the hammer and sickle from their flag less than
   ten years ago, favour affiliating with the cross-Europe Party of
   European Socialists. But Francesco Rutelli, who leads Democracy and
   Freedom, said at his party's congress last weekend that this was
   "impossible".

   And that points to perhaps the biggest doubt: whether putting all of
   Italy's centre-leftists into one party can stop them warring. Mr Prodi
   wants the Democratic Party to be like its American namesake, but it
   will not be. Its leftmost tip may match the Democrats; but on the
   right it takes in members of Mr Rutelli's party who look more
   Republican. One, a member of the Catholic Opus Dei movement and
   fervently pro-life, proudly admits to wearing the cilice, an
   instrument of corporal mortification. You can bet Mr Clinton never did
   that.

