
                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

   The poor world is getting the rich world's diseases

   IN 1619 an English captain sailing past Cape Cod reported that the
   Massachusetts shore was "utterly void". The Indians "died in heapes as
   they lay in their houses" confirmed an English merchant. By killing
   much of the population of the Wampanoag confederacy, the epidemic that
   raged from 1616-19 made possible the first permanent European
   settlement in north America, that of the Pilgrim Fathers in 1620. The
   Indians had caught the illness, thought to have been viral hepatitis,
   from prior contact with Europeans, probably captured French sailors.

   Europeans have been exporting their maladies throughout history. They
   seem to be doing it again, but in a new way. In the past, the problem
   was infection. Now, illnesses associated with Western living standards
   are the fastest growing killers in poor and middle-income countries.
   Chronic disease has become the poor world's greatest health problem.

   For many in the West, diseases are a bit like birds: everyone gets
   them but poor countries have more exotic species. Rich-country
   maladies are things like heart disease, cancer and diabetes: "chronic"
   conditions often resulting from diet or physical inactivity.
   Developing countries suffer more lurid and acute infections: malaria,
   tuberculosis, measles, cholera. HIV/AIDS is unusual in that it affects
   rich and poor alike. But otherwise, poor countries are presumed to
   have their own health problems. The sixth of the United Nations'
   millennium development goals (a sort of ten commandments of poverty
   reduction adopted in 2000) is concerned with infections only--the
   ailments of poverty. The progress report issued last month half way
   through the millennium programme's 15-year course tracks HIV/AIDS,
   malaria and tuberculosis. Combating chronic disease is not part of
   what the UN calls its "universal framework for development".

   Yet the distinction between illnesses of affluence and illnesses of
   poverty is misleading as a description of the world and doubtful as a
   guide to policy. Heart disease--supposedly an illness of affluence--is
   by far and away the biggest cause of global mortality. It was
   responsible for 17.5m deaths worldwide in 2005. Next comes cancer,
   another non-infectious sickness, which caused more deaths than
   HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria put together (see chart 1). Chronic
   conditions such as heart disease took the lives of 35m people in 2005,
   according to the World Health Organisation (WHO)--twice as many as all
   infectious diseases.

   If you look at lower-middle income countries, such as China, or
   upper-middle income ones, like Argentina, you find that what kills
   people there is the same as in the West (see chart 2). Four-fifths of
   all deaths in China are from chronic sicknesses. That is also true of
   countries as varied as Egypt, Jamaica and Sri Lanka.

   The main difference between these countries and rich ones is that
   chronic illnesses are more deadly there. Five times as many people die
   of heart disease in Brazil as in Britain, though Brazil is not five
   times as populous. Rich countries have become better at dealing with
   chronic conditions: death rates from heart disease among men over 30
   have fallen by more than half in the past generation, from 600-800 per
   100,000 in 1970 to 200-300 per 100,000 now.

   This has not happened in middle-income countries. In 1980 the death
   rate for Brazilian men was below the rich-country average (300
   compared with 500-600). Its death rate has not changed--and is now
   higher than all but a few rich countries. Russia is worse off. In 1980
   its death rate was 750 per 100,000. Now it is 900, about four times as
   high as most rich countries.

   It may not seem surprising that upper-middle income places such as
   Russia suffer from "Western" ailments. But chronic diseases are mass
   killers in the poorest nations, too. Indeed, the only unusual thing
   about these countries is that they suffer from infections as well as
   chronic disease: a double burden. Chronic diseases were responsible
   for over 12m deaths in countries with annual incomes below $750 a head
   in 2005--almost as many as were caused by communicable ones. Africa is
   the only continent where infectious illnesses cause more deaths than
   the non-communicable kinds.

   Chronic diseases are becoming deadlier and more burdensome to the
   poor. By 2015, says the World Bank, these ailments will be the leading
   cause of death in low-income countries. They already account for
   almost half of all illnesses there and impose substantial economic
   costs.

   People in poor countries get chronic diseases younger than in the
   West. There, chronic conditions bear heavily upon the old. Not so in
   poor and middle-income nations. Death rates for those between 30 and
   69 years of age in India, Russia and Brazil are two or three times
   higher than in Canada and Britain. Almost half of deaths from chronic
   problems in developing countries occur in people below 70.

   As a result, the poor suffer from chronic illnesses longer and are
   more likely to die of them. The death rate from chronic disease in
   poor countries is obviously higher than in rich countries; more
   surprisingly, it is often higher than the death rate from infections.
   India, Pakistan, Nigeria and Tanzania all have roughly the same death
   rate for cardiovascular disease: 400 per 100,000. That is at least
   twice as high as the Western norm and, at least in India and Pakistan,
   more than four times the average death rate from infections (in
   Nigeria and Tanzania, HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis are still
   deadlier).

   Chronic disease bears down especially hard on working adults, imposing
   a heavy economic burden. Families in poor countries are much more
   likely than in the West to spend their savings looking after a
   chronically ill relative, or to pull children out of school to act as
   nursemaids.

   In short, developing countries suffer more from "rich world maladies"
   than the rich world itself. Overall in 2005, only a fifth of deaths
   attributable to "illnesses of affluence" (chronic conditions) actually
   took place in the most affluent nations. Three-quarters happened in
   poor or lower-middle-income ones.

   Death eaters

   Why are poor countries so vulnerable to the diseases of the rich? And
   why does public attention and aid money ignore them and focus on
   infections?

   The simplest explanation for chronic diseases' increasing importance
   is that people in poor countries now live long enough to suffer them.
   Thanks to better sanitation, more food and improved public health,
   average life expectancy in low and middle-income countries has risen
   from 50 in 1965 to 65 in 2005. The increase in the poorest countries
   was proportionately greater: from 47 to 63. There are now more old
   people around to be vulnerable to chronic maladies.

   At the same time, because of increased health spending and safer
   water, infectious diseases have declined relative to chronic ones.
   International financing for malaria control has increased more than
   tenfold in the past decade. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation,
   with its $33 billion endowment, concentrates largely on infections. As
   a result, the incidence of tuberculosis, measured by the number of new
   cases per 100,000, has fallen slightly. In Africa fatal malaria cases
   among children under five (the main victims) fell between 1960 and
   1995, though the decline has since levelled off. The WHO reckons that
   deaths from infections will decline by 3% over the next ten years. So
   more people in poor places will survive infections in their dangerous
   childhoods to reach an age when they are susceptible to heart attacks
   and cancer.

   Since chronic disease among the poor is not the preserve of old age,
   another part of the explanation for its increasing importance must lie
   in the harmful things middle-aged folk do. Of these, smoking and
   unhealthy eating are most important.

   Around 300m Chinese men smoke. In China, Egypt, Indonesia and Russia,
   people spend 5-6% of their household income on cigarettes--far more
   than the share in rich countries. Smoking and its associated ailments
   are still rising in poor countries, even while they fall in rich ones.

   Middle-income countries are also experiencing extraordinary levels of
   obesity. According to one study, half of all households in Brazil
   contain at least one obese person; the share is three-quarters in
   Russia. According to another, Mexico is the second fattest nation
   among the 30 (mostly rich) countries of the Organisation for Economic
   Co-operation and Development, after America. It has the highest rate
   of diabetes among large countries, with 6.5m diabetics in a population
   of 100m. Not coincidentally, Mexicans are among the biggest swiggers
   of fizzy drinks in the world. Coke and tacos, anyone?

   Obesity affects rich countries, of course: it is a symptom of
   affluence and urbanisation. But it is occurring much earlier than
   anyone had expected in middle-income places. Obesity among children
   there used to be unheard of. Last year China's vice-minister for
   health, Wang Longde, said more than a fifth of Chinese children
   between seven and 17 who live in cities are overweight--a proportion
   that presumably reflects not only the wealth of China's urban elite
   but the amount of money they lavish on their "little emperors" (the
   single children they are limited to by China's one-child policy).

   Yet despite all the evidence that chronic disease is the world's
   biggest health problem, most poor countries focus on infectious
   disease and their health policies are usually based on the idea that
   infections should be controlled before chronic conditions. These
   choices no doubt partly reflect bureaucratic inertia at health
   ministries and investment in fighting infections by medical charities
   and drugs firms.

   Not just statistics

   It is true that there are better reasons why poor countries might want
   to concentrate on infections despite the growth of chronic disease.
   Infectious illnesses are usually simpler to deal with than chronic
   ones, requiring inoculation campaigns rather than long-term care,
   changes of lifestyle and the uphill work of public education.
   Moreover, if you inoculate a child against malaria, you considerably
   reduce his or her chances of dying from that disease, since most
   deaths from malaria occur among children under ten. If you lower
   someone's risk of getting a heart condition at 50, you might well find
   they get it at 60. The disease can only be managed.

   Still, it can be managed better: the contrast between death rates from
   heart attacks (falling in the West, rising elsewhere) shows that.
   Stalin said a single death is a tragedy, a million deaths, a
   statistic. But millions of avoidable deaths are millions of tragedies.
   Chronic disease is already the biggest problem for poor and
   middle-income countries. To concentrate so much on infections is to
   add to the health burden of the next generation in what are already
   the world's poorest, unhealthiest places.


   Have the terrorist attacks of September 11th 2001 put a lasting dent
   in civil liberties? The first of a series begins this week with a look
   at torture

   IN EVERY war, information is a weapon. In a "war against terrorism",
   where the adversary wears no uniform and hides among the civilian
   population, information can matter even more. But does that mean that
   torture can sometimes be justified to extract information?

   The answer in international law is categorical: no. As laid down in
   treaties such as the Geneva Conventions, the UN Convention against
   Torture and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,
   the ban on torture or any cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment is
   absolute, even in times of war. Along with genocide, torture is the
   only crime that every state must punish, no matter who commits it or
   where. Defenders of this blanket prohibition offer arguments that
   range from the moral (torture degrades and corrupts the society that
   allows it) to the practical (people will say anything under torture so
   the information they provide is unreliable anyway).

   The September 11th attacks have not driven any rich democracy to
   reverse itself and make torture legal. But they have encouraged the
   bending of definitions and the turning of blind eyes. There is a
   greater readiness among governments that would never practise torture
   themselves to use information which less squeamish states have
   obtained--through torture.

   Start with definitions. Most civilised people squirm at the thought of
   putting suspected terrorists on the rack or pulling off toenails. What
   if that prisoner knew the whereabouts of a ticking bomb--maybe a
   biological, chemical or even nuclear one? Wouldn't a little sleep
   deprivation, sexual humiliation or even water-dunking be justified to
   save hundreds and perhaps thousands of lives? Whatever the law says, a
   lot of people seem to think so.

   In a BBC survey of 27,000 people in 25 countries last October, more
   than one out of three people in nine of those countries, including
   America, considered a degree of torture acceptable if it saved lives.
   Opposition was highest in most European and English-speaking countries
   (see chart). Another poll in 2005 by the Pew Research Centre found
   that nearly half of all Americans thought the torture of suspected
   terrorists was sometimes justified.

   Two Republican presidential hopefuls, Rudy Giuliani and Mitt Romney,
   support the "enhanced" interrogation of suspects in the event of an
   imminent attack. Dick Cheney, America's vice-president, recently
   suggested that "dunking" a terrorist in water to save lives was a
   "no-brainer". The ensuing uproar led him to backtrack, claiming that
   he was not, of course, referring to "water-boarding", or simulated
   drowning, a technique regarded as tantamount to torture and banned in
   the American army's own interrogation manual.

   I'll tickle you into submission

   One objection to allowing moderate physical pressure is the difficulty
   of knowing where to draw the line. If stress positions and sleep
   deprivation do not work, do you progress to branding with red-hot
   irons and beating to a pulp? And can you rely on interrogators to heed
   such distinctions? It is the danger of a slippery slope that makes
   opponents of torture insist on a total ban.

   Israel is the only country in modern times to have openly allowed
   "moderate physical pressure" as a "last resort". Since interrogators
   used such methods anyway, it was argued, passing an explicit law would
   at least make it possible to set out some limits. But in 1999, citing
   the slippery-slope argument, Israel's Supreme Court ruled that torture
   could never be justified, even in the case of a ticking bomb. It went
   on to outlaw techniques such as sleep deprivation, exposure to
   extremes of hot and cold, prolonged stress positions, hooding and
   violent shaking.

   In the 1970s Britain used similar techniques against suspected
   terrorists in Northern Ireland. These were banned in 1978 following a
   case brought by the Republic of Ireland to the European Court of Human
   Rights. Although not torture, such methods did amount to inhumane
   treatment, the court ruled. In 2002 the International Criminal Court
   for ex-Yugoslavia in The Hague decided that prolonged solitary
   confinement constituted torture. Such rulings did not prevent America
   from resorting to such harsh techniques when interrogating suspects in
   Afghanistan, Iraq and Guantánamo Bay, however. Former detainees in
   those places have spoken of severe beatings, water-boarding,
   excruciating stress positions, mock executions, sleep deprivation and
   much else besides.

   Administration lawyers argued that since al-Qaeda and its Taliban
   allies were not a state party to the Geneva Conventions they were not
   covered by its ban on torture and other maltreatment. True, America
   had ratified (in 1988) the Convention against Torture, but that
   applied only to acts carried out on American soil, they said. And
   though America's own 1994 federal statute against torture did cover
   acts by Americans abroad, this applied only to full-blown torture, not
   lesser abuses.

   In the notorious "torture memos" drawn up by the Department of Justice
   and the Pentagon in 2002 and 2003, the same lawyers sought to restrict
   the normal definition of torture--"severe pain or suffering"--to
   extreme acts equivalent to "serious physical injury, organ failure, or
   even death". Furthermore, as a wartime commander in chief whose main
   duty was to protect the American people, the president had the power
   to override both domestic and international law, they argued. After
   being leaked in 2004 most of these memos were "withdrawn", though not
   the one on the president's wartime powers.

   Mr Bush and his colleagues have always said that America neither
   authorises nor condones torture. "We don't do torture," the president
   famously said. But Mr Bush has been vaguer about the grey area between
   torture and more moderate pressure. Soon after suspected terrorists
   were first sent to Guantánamo in January 2002 he said that America's
   armed forces would treat the detainees "humanely" in a manner
   "consistent with the Geneva Conventions"--but only "to the extent
   appropriate and consistent with military necessity".

   Not until the Supreme Court's ruling in Hamdan in 2006 did the
   administration accept that all detainees, wherever held, were
   protected by Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions, which bans
   all forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment as well as torture.
   The 2005 Detainee Treatment Act, incorporating an amendment by Senator
   John McCain, already prohibited such treatment by American soldiers
   anywhere in the world. But it did not apply to the CIA.

   Co-operating with torturers

   Yet it is the CIA that has been responsible for the "extraordinary
   rendition" of suspects to clandestine prisons in third countries for
   "enhanced" interrogation (whether by that country's agents or the CIA
   itself) amounting at times, many suspect, to torture. The programme's
   existence was not officially confirmed until Mr Bush announced last
   year the transfer to Guantánamo of the last 14 "high-value" detainees
   then being held in so-called "black sites" around the world. Of some
   100 suspected terrorists believed to have been "rendered" over the
   past six years, 39 remain unaccounted for, Human Rights Watch, a New
   York-based lobby, says.

   In July this year Mr Bush set out new broad guidelines for
   interrogations under a resumed CIA programme. He says the newly
   authorised techniques now comply fully with the Geneva Conventions'
   ban on "outrages upon personal dignity, in particular humiliating and
   degrading treatment" as well as torture. Even if true (which is hard
   to know because the details have not been disclosed), the programme
   itself with its enforced disappearances and black sites, which even
   the International Red Cross is not allowed to visit, violates basic
   tenets of international law.

   Even if a country bans torture, how should it treat information that
   others have extracted this way? In 2004 Britain's Court of Appeal
   ruled that information acquired through torture was admissible as
   evidence in court. David Blunkett, then Britain's home secretary,
   welcomed the ruling. Although the government "unreservedly" condemned
   torture, he said, it would be "irresponsible not to take appropriate
   account of any information which could help protect national security
   and public safety." But the ruling was later overturned by the House
   of Lords.

   A separate question is whether governments should use information
   extracted under torture by others for counter-terrorist purposes, even
   if it is not admissible as evidence. Most probably agree with Mr
   Blunkett that it would be irresponsible not to. But a case can be made
   that this is, in effect, condoning the use of torture by allies.

   Britain has also run into trouble when trying to deport suspected
   foreign terrorists against whom it has not got enough evidence to
   secure a conviction in court. Under international law, a country must
   make sure that the person it wishes to expel is not in danger of being
   tortured or subjected to other abuse in the receiving country. In 2005
   the UN's special rapporteur on torture criticised Britain for relying
   on "diplomatic assurances" that deportees would not be tortured.
   Charles Clarke, who had succeeded Mr Blunkett as home secretary,
   retorted that the rights of the victims of the London Tube bombings
   that year mattered more than those of the perpetrators. The UN should
   "look at human rights in the round", he said, "rather than simply
   focusing all the time on the terrorist." Fine--except that no British
   court had convicted these suspects as terrorists.

   To date, 144 countries have ratified the Convention against Torture.
   (The hold-outs include such usual suspects as Sudan, North Korea,
   Myanmar and Zimbabwe, but also India.) And yet, the UN's special
   rapporteur told the Security Council in June, torture remains
   widespread. Amnesty International noted cases of state-sponsored
   torture or other inhumane treatment in 102 of the 153 countries
   included in its 2007 report. The worst offenders were China, Egypt
   (both of which are parties to the convention), Myanmar and North
   Korea, along with several African countries. America's transgressions
   are trivial by comparison. The worry, argues Kenneth Roth, director of
   Human Rights Watch, is that when America breaks the rules it
   encourages others to do the same.

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

       The scandal of Abu Ghraib: a recruiting poster for terrorists

   Why does torture endure? Part of the reason, argues Michael Ignatieff,
   a Canadian writer, may be that it is at times motivated not so much by
   a desire to extract vital information but by something baser, such as
   an urge to inflict pain, exact revenge, or even just for fun. That
   seems to have been part of the motivation of the Americans who abused
   prisoners in Abu Ghraib, for example. But torture may also endure
   because it sometimes works.

   They'll say anything

   Many critics of torture claim that it is ineffective as well as
   repugnant. Since people will say anything just to stop the pain, the
   information gleaned may not be reliable. On the other hand, if people
   do say anything under torture, you might expect some of what they say
   to be true and therefore--if those being tortured really are
   terrorists--useful to the authorities. Torture certainly helped induce
   Guy Fawkes to betray his co-conspirators after they had tried to blow
   up King James I and the British Parliament on November 5th 1605.

   Asked recently about the CIA's use of enhanced interrogation in secret
   prisons, George Tenet, the CIA's director until 2004, replied that the
   agency's widely condemned rendition programme had saved lives,
   disrupted plots and provided "invaluable" information in the war
   against terrorism. Indeed, while denying the use of full-blown
   torture, he said that the programme on its own was "worth more than
   the FBI, the CIA and the National Security Agency put together have
   been able to tell us."

   Mr Ignatieff, for his own part, sees no trumping argument on behalf of
   terrorists that makes their claims to human rights and dignity prevail
   over the security interests--and right to life--of the majority. Yet
   he continues to advocate a total ban. "We cannot torture, in other
   words, because of who we are," he says. He knows that many will
   disagree.


   More and more countries have doubts about the death penalty

   HOURS after being sentenced to death by a sharia court in Somalia last
   May, Omar Hussein was publicly executed. He was hooded, tied to a
   stake and stabbed to death by the 16-year-old son of the man he had
   admitted stabbing to death three months earlier.

   In Kuwait, a Sri Lankan was executed last year by hanging, or so the
   authorities thought. After the body was taken to the morgue, medical
   staff saw he was still moving. He was finally pronounced dead only
   five hours after the execution had begun. In Iran, a man and a woman
   were stoned to death for extra-marital sex.

   The horrors of cruelly administered, or botched, execution are not
   confined to developing countries or to lands that follow the letter of
   hudud, traditional Islamic punishment. In Florida last December, Angel
   Diaz was executed by lethal injection. The three-drug cocktail that is
   used by 37 American states is supposed first to induce
   unconsciousness, then to paralyse muscles and block breathing, and
   finally to stop the heart. But after the first injection, Diaz
   continued to move, squint and grimace as he tried to mouth words. A
   second dose was administered; only after 34 minutes was he declared
   dead. A post mortem showed the first needle had plunged through the
   intended vein, injecting the deadly chemicals into soft tissue
   instead. Two days later Governor Jeb Bush suspended executions in the
   state and set up a commission with a mandate to consider the humanity
   and constitutionality of lethal injections.

   According to Amnesty International's latest report, "at least"
   (precise figures are hard to get) 1,591 executions were carried out
   worldwide last year, well down on the previous year, but nearly 40%
   higher than in 2003. Yet Piers Bannister, the lobby group's
   death-penalty specialist, believes that the world is gradually inching
   its way towards abolition.

   That may sound wildly optimistic. But he says the important point is
   not the number of executions, which fluctuates from year to year, but
   the number of countries that carry out executions. This total has
   fallen steadily from 40 a decade ago to just 25 last year. Since 1985,
   55 countries have ended the death penalty or, having already limited
   it to "extraordinary" crimes (such as those committed in wartime),
   have now banned it outright.

   During the same period, only four states have reintroduced the death
   penalty. Two of them, Nepal and the Philippines, have since abolished
   it again; in the other two, the Gambia and Papua New Guinea, there
   have been no executions.

   Big swathes of the world have become execution-free: 89 countries have
   abolished the death penalty for all crimes, another ten for all but
   exceptional crimes, and a further 30 are abolitionist in practice,
   having executed nobody for at least a decade. Louise Arbour, the UN
   High Commissioner for Human Rights, has called for the complete
   abolition of the death penalty. In Europe, where abolition of capital
   punishment is a condition of membership of both the European Union and
   the 46-nation Council of Europe (of which Russia is a member), Belarus
   is the only country that still uses it. In Africa, only four countries
   carried out the death penalty last year. And in the Americas, the
   United States is the only country to have executed anybody since 2003.
   Only Asia and the Middle East seem largely untouched by the global
   movement away from the death penalty.

   Even China, the world's top executioner--which reports carrying out
   1,010 death sentences last year, though the real number may be nearer
   8,000--might be having second thoughts. Since January 1st all death
   sentences have had first to be approved by the Supreme People's
   Court--a practice that had been suspended after the launch of China's
   "strike hard" crackdown on crime in 2003, when publicly admitted
   executions soared to more than 7,000. In their annual report to
   parliament last month, representatives of China's chief legal bodies,
   including the Supreme People's Court, the public prosecutor's office
   and the ministries for justice and the police, urged a reduction in
   use of the death penalty (as well as torture).

   At a meeting of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva last month, La
   Yifan, a Chinese delegate, went quite a lot further; he said he was
   "confident" that the application of the death penalty in China "will
   be finally abolished"--though this may prove to be window-dressing in
   the run-up to next year's Beijing Olympics.

   The method used for execution in China is already changing, with a
   gradual switch from firing squads to American-style injections. It was
   reported last year that China had deployed a fleet of "death
   vans"--vehicles equipped with the necessary equipment for lethal
   jabs--in order to make it easier for rural communities to dispose of
   criminals.

   Six countries--China, Iran, Pakistan, Iraq, Sudan and the United
   States--accounted for more than nine in ten of last year's known
   executions. Kuwait, which put just ten people to death last year, had
   the highest number of executions per head, followed by Iran. Iraq,
   where the death penalty was suspended after the American invasion in
   2003, showed the biggest proportionate leap in executions, up from
   just three in 2005. Desertion from the Iraqi army has been made
   punishable by death.

   Methods of execution vary widely. Since 2000, the condemned have been
   put to death by stoning (in Afghanistan and Iran), stabbing (in
   Somalia), beheading (in Saudi Arabia and Iraq), electrocution (in the
   American states of Virgina, South Carolina and Alabama), shooting (in
   China, Belarus, Somalia, Taiwan, and other countries), hanging (in
   Egypt, Iran, Japan, Jordan, Pakistan, Singapore and elsewhere), and
   lethal injection (in China, Guatemala, the Philippines, Thailand and
   America).

   Introduced in America in 1977 as a supposedly more humane alternative
   to other forms of capital punishment, lethal injection is now the
   preferred method in all but one of the 38 states that retain the death
   penalty. But its reliability and painlessness are increasingly being
   questioned. Eleven states have already suspended some or all of their
   executions while awaiting the outcome of more than 40 legal
   challenges, based on the constitution's ban on "cruel and unusual
   punishment". Given the number of contradictory rulings by the courts,
   the matter is bound to end up, sooner or later, in the Supreme Court.

   This week, as two more convicts were executed by lethal injection (in
   Ohio and Texas), a new report added fresh scientific evidence. An
   analysis of 41 executions by lethal injection in California and North
   Carolina since 1984 found that the three-drug cocktail can cause a
   slow and painful death from suffocation while leaving victims
   conscious, but unable to move or cry out. Furthermore, the last drug,
   designed to provoke massive cardiac arrest, does not always succeed in
   doing so, according to the Public Library of Science online journal,
   PLoS Medicine. 

   America is one of very few democracies (along with Japan, India, South
   Korea and Taiwan) still to have the death penalty. Abolitionists have
   been galvanised by findings that many innocent people--more than 120
   since 1973--were wrongly sentenced to death. Now questions over
   America's most popular method of execution are prompting some
   campaigners to ask, hopefully, whether this could be the beginning of
   the end of capital punishment. Some states, including New Jersey,
   Maryland, Montana and Nebraska, are already moving towards an outright
   ban. And if injections are outlawed, then a majority of Americans
   might prefer life imprisonment without parole rather than returning to
   the electric chair, firing squad or gas chamber. Indeed, there are
   opinion polls which suggest that half the electorate already feels
   that way.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   An impressive bounty for the new skipper of a troubled ship

   WHEN sailors turn on their captain, it often ends badly--in shipwreck
   or retribution. But the World Bank, whose staff rose up against their
   leader in the spring, has just hauled in some treasure.

   On December 14th, after nine months' haggling, it convinced 45
   countries--including unlikely benefactors such as China, Egypt and
   Latvia--to give it over $25 billion, to be bestowed on the world's
   poorest states during the next three years.

   That is 42% more than the bank drummed up the last time round, and
   comes on top of $6.3 billion to compensate it for the loan repayments
   it lost as a result of debt relief. At a time when the IMF, a sister
   institution, faces big job cuts, this infusion of funds was a triumph
   for multilateralism. It was also a victory for the bank's new
   president, Robert Zoellick (pictured above), who replaced Paul
   Wolfowitz in July. A confident technocrat, he has reassured Europeans
   who were unnerved by his neoconservative predecessor's political
   baggage and lack of direction. Germany, one of the leaders of the
   spring putsch, stumped up $2.2 billion, and Britain, which pledged
   $4.3 billion, became the bank's biggest single donor.

   Mr Zoellick had raised the ante in this funding round by contributing
   $3.5 billion to the pot from other bits of the bank's empire. Rather
   than relending that money to middle-income countries or investing it
   in the private sector, Mr Zoellick chose to spend it in countries
   whose annual income per head is less than $1,065.

   In some ways, the bank's prospects may have benefited from tumult at
   the top. Europe's policymakers worked hard to oust Mr Wolfowitz. Why
   bother, if they were not ready to back his replacement?

   Still, Mr Zoellick's pitch in the beg-a-thon differed little from his
   predecessor's: the bank mobilises common funds for common aims, as Mr
   Wolfowitz put it. In a world of more than 280 donors (from the Desert
   Locust Control Organisation for Eastern Africa to the International
   Potato Centre), international aid is a fragmented business, putting it
   mildly. The bank says it can hold it all together.

   For example, on December 13th the bank approved a project to lay and
   repair rural roads and bridges in Afghanistan, which often succumb to
   snow, rain or landslides. Afghan reconstruction is supported by a
   multilateral fund, administered by the bank. All neat and tidy. But
   funds for road-building also arrive from the Europeans, the Japanese,
   the Americans, the British and even the UN's Counternarcotics Trust
   Fund. The road project's prospectus bemoans the "large numbers of
   donors and NGOs chasing projects and government attention".

   Too true. Tanzania got 542 donor visits in 2005; Vietnam had 791, more
   than two a day. By pouring money through a shared conduit like the
   bank, donors make fewer demands on weak local bureaucracies. The OECD,
   a rich-country club, says the bank is less of a nuisance than some
   donors: less prone to split aid into tiny projects, or to bypass a
   government's own budgetary systems.

   The bank calls itself a common "platform" from which others can
   operate. But such modesty conflicts, at times, with a need to find and
   advertise success stories. One such tale is a project in India's
   Karnataka state, which has helped farmers to make dams, collect rain
   and protect soil from monsoons. The bank says these efforts have
   raised crop yields by 24% and household incomes by two-thirds; they
   have also yielded some nice images of sapling mango trees and
   flowering jasmine.

   But the bank is still struggling to gauge the real impact of its work.
   It can say it built or repaired over 22,000 classrooms in the 12
   months to June, but it can't tell how much children are learning. So
   the bank wants to improve its own indicators: the Afghan project, for
   example, will judge its success by whether the price of commodities in
   village markets falls to within 15% of town prices. But the bank's
   recent woes have slowed the drive for closer self-scrutiny--a need
   that may well grow as it is called on to oversee projects that are
   supposed to conserve carbon (see [3]article).

   The bank is happy when cash flows smoothly from taxpayers, through its
   coffers, to the governments and projects it supports. But sometimes
   development is better served by restraint than by largesse. Free money
   can stifle a country's own tax-raising efforts--and private
   enterprise. It can also underwrite misgovernment and malfeasance. The
   bank's staff and shareholders balked when Mr Wolfowitz shifted course
   to focus more on corruption. After that experience, will their new
   helmsman ever dare to rock the boat?


   Can rule by the people be reconciled with the sovereignty of Allah?


   "TURKEY sets a fantastic example for nations around the world to see
   where it's possible to have a democracy coexist with a great religion
   like Islam." Those were George Bush's words of welcome, this week, to
   Turkey's President Abdullah Gul.

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

              In the name of God, let's throw the rascals out

   In decades past, a Turkish leader might have been received at the
   White House with cordial remarks about his country's growing
   prosperity or its contribution to NATO. But it would have been
   strange, perhaps, not to mention religion when hosting a head of state
   who had just set a precedent that was watched with fascination by
   politically active Muslims in many parts of the world. When he became
   president, Mr Gul proved that it was possible for a pious Muslim with
   a headscarved wife to be made head of state, by a perfectly democratic
   procedure, in a country where the army is an ever-vigilant guardian
   against theocracy. For those who insist (whether their arguments are
   theological, or empirical, or both) that Islam and liberal democracy
   are quite compatible, Mr Gul's election (and Mr Bush's exuberant
   reaction to it) was a badly needed nugget of hope in a year when that
   cause has seen quite a lot of setbacks.

   Among American officialdom, confidence in the prospects for democracy
   in Muslim (and in particular, Arab) lands has fluctuated under the
   Bush administration. It reached a high point, arguably, in mid-2005,
   when Condoleezza Rice, the secretary of state, declared in Cairo that
   the bad old days of favouring stability over democracy were over--and
   then it plunged again the following January when the Islamist Hamas
   movement swept to victory in Palestine.

   For political scientists, especially those who have studied the
   phenomenon of "Muslim Democracy" in the belief that the Turkish case
   could be a precedent for others, the recent turmoil in Pakistan and
   the assassination of Benazir Bhutto have been a great tragedy in a
   pivotal country that had the potential to develop a new concordat
   between Islam and open politics.

   Vali Nasr, a professor at America's Tufts University, terms "Muslim
   Democracy" a newish and potentially decisive force in the non-Arab
   parts of the Muslim world. In his view, the recent experience of
   Turkey, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Malaysia and Indonesia all points to a
   single truth: wherever they are given the chance, Muslim Democratic
   parties (which are responsive to public opinion and thrive in an open
   political contest) can prevail over harder-line and more violent
   varieties of political Islam.

   Among the parties Mr Nasr identifies as Muslim Democratic are the
   faction of the Pakistani Muslim League that held sway until the
   military takeover in 1999; the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (in power
   till last year's coup); Malaysia's ruling UMNO party; and a cluster of
   mildly Islamic parties that share power in Indonesia (see [4]article).
   Exhibit A for Muslim Democracy is Turkey's Justice and Development
   (AK) party, which won its democratic spurs after several decades of
   sparring between generals and pious politicians. As with several other
   Muslim Democratic parties, the AK's rise reflected economic growth and
   the advent of a devout but non-fanatical middle class which resents
   the older elites of bureaucrats and generals.

   But what if any is the intellectual ground for Muslim Democracy? Roman
   Catholic thinking had to tread a long path before it reconciled its
   belief in human sinfulness with popular sovereignty; Christian
   Democracy, an important force in post-1945 Europe, was the result.

   Abdal-Hakim Murad, a British Muslim scholar, argues that Muslim
   Democrats have an easier road to travel because Islam's view of human
   nature is a less pessimistic one. But several factors have helped to
   make the Muslim debate about democracy difficult and inconclusive.
   Most of the schools of Muslim thought that have emerged over the past
   century have been intensely interested in political theory, and also
   intensely concerned with precedents set at the dawn of the Muslim era.
   But the precedents are not clear: some caliphs took power by
   inheritance, others through consensus, others by force.

   Khaled Abou El Fadl, an Egyptian-born law professor, has pointed to a
   passage from the Koran which seems to endow human beings with a
   special mandate to look after their own affairs.

     When your Lord said to the angels: "I have to place a vice-regent
     on earth," they said: "Will you place one there who will create
     disorder and shed blood, while we intone Your litanies and sanctify
     Your name?" And God said: "I know what you do not know."

   That verse, Mr Fadl has argued, seems to imply that far from sitting
   back and letting God do everything, human beings must organise their
   own society.

   Another relevant text is the story of Ali, the fourth Muslim caliph,
   whose leadership was challenged by a rival. To the fury of his zealous
   supporters, Ali agreed that conflicting claims should be submitted to
   arbitration. Posterity found Ali right and his critics wrong: human
   institutions do have a place in settling issues of state.

   From Cairo to California

   For anyone who looks to Islam's foundational texts as the ultimate
   arbiter of truth, these are resonant allusions. But arguments in
   favour of Islam's compatibility with democracy are in perpetual danger
   of being drowned out by a mixture of depressing news from Muslim lands
   and zealous ideologues on both sides of a looming civilisational
   divide.

   Whether or not they condone violence, many of the most strident
   advocates of "political Islam" still take their cue from Sayyid Qutb,
   an Egyptian thinker, executed in 1966, who regarded secular democracy
   (and all other secular forms of government, including socialism) as
   blasphemy pure and simple. In places ranging from British campuses to
   the jails and torture chambers of Uzbekistan, there are zealous
   ideologues who follow the Qutbist line that all human agencies of
   power are a violation of the sovereignty of God. Neatly converging
   with the anti-democratic zeal of these malcontents is an increasingly
   respectable argument, among sceptical Western observers of Islam,
   which holds that the Muslim faith, by its very nature, cannot be other
   than theocratic. If that is true, then encouraging moderate--in the
   sense of apolitical--versions of Islam can only be a waste of time.

   In the United States, in particular, an"essentialist" mistrust of
   Islam in all its forms has been gaining ground. One recent sign of
   this mood: when Keith Ellison from Minnesota became the first Muslim
   congressman, he was challenged, during his first television interview,
   to prove that he was not "working for our enemies".

   But in America's free-ranging debates, where the spectrum of views on
   Islam is probably wider than in any Muslim land or even in Europe,
   there are also many voices on the other side. Mr Fadl makes his case
   for the compatibility of democracy and Islam from the University of
   California at Los Angeles, probably a more secure setting than his
   native Cairo.

   Meanwhile Firas Ahmad, a columnist who co-edits a glossy Muslim
   monthly from his home in Boston, maintains that a lot of Islamic
   history--as well as the dilemmas of modern times--should be
   reconsidered in the light of the robust separation between religion
   and state which (on his reading, at least), Muslims have quite
   frequently, and cheerfully, maintained. In modern America, Muslims can
   make a big contribution to debates about greed and social justice,
   while fully respecting the country's secular constitution. And his
   favourite passages in history are the bits where believers (often
   courageous Sufi mystics) spoke truth to power, not the instances when
   pliant greybeards did favours to the sultan.

   There are, in short, many interesting things to say about Islam and
   democracy. The pity is that they are mostly being said in the West,
   not in Islam's heartland.


   Heads of state, past and present, are increasingly being brought to
   book for crimes committed while in office

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   WHEN Charles Taylor, then president of Liberia, was charged with 11
   counts of war crimes, crimes against humanity and other atrocities in
   June 2003, few thought he would be captured, let alone ever brought to
   justice. But this week, four and a half years after his indictment,
   his trial proper at last began in The Hague. Mr Taylor, now aged 59,
   is the first former African head of state to face an international
   war-crimes court.

   Just a few years ago, such an event would have been almost
   inconceivable. However brutal or corrupt, Africa's leaders used to
   shield one another from justice for fear that their turn could come
   next. But the remarkable spread of international justice over the past
   decade has brought about an equally remarkable change in attitudes
   towards prosecuting former heads of state, not just in Africa but
   throughout the world. No fewer than ten former presidents and military
   dictators are facing legal proceedings for human-rights offences
   and/or corruption, some in international tribunals, others in their
   own domestic courts, a few in other countries' courts.

   In Peru, ex-President Alberto Fujimori is on trial for human-rights
   violations and fraud. He has already been sentenced to six years in
   jail for abuse of power. In Cambodia, Khieu Samphan, president from
   1976 to 1979, is in jail awaiting his turn before a new UN-backed
   tribunal set up to try Khmer Rouge leaders. And in Senegal, Hissène
   Habré, ex-president of Chad, is awaiting trial for crimes against
   humanity before a special court being set up in Dakar.

   Meanwhile, General Suharto, Indonesia's former dictator, aged 86, has
   once again been rushed to hospital in the midst of legal proceedings
   for graft. Previous moves to prosecute him--he is alleged to have
   embezzled $1.54 billion during his 32-year reign--have failed on
   grounds of ill health. But he may have cried wolf too often. Despite
   the general's reported "critical" condition, Indonesia's
   attorney-general vowed to press ahead regardless with civil
   proceedings against him.

   Until recently, heads of state and government, past or present, were
   commonly seen as immune from prosecution for acts, however vile,
   performed as part of their official functions. But in a landmark
   decision in 1999 involving Augusto Pinochet, Chile's ex-dictator,
   Britain's law lords ruled that there could be no immunity for certain
   international crimes such as torture, and that Pinochet could
   therefore be extradited to Spain.

   The fact that the octogenarian was never extradited, being allowed to
   return to Chile instead because of ill health, did not matter. A taboo
   had been broken. A previously hesitant Chile then brought its own
   charges against the ex-president. Although Pinochet died (in December
   2006) before his trial began, the floodgates had been opened. Others
   now felt free to pursue their own tyrants.

   In Latin America, home to many odious military regimes in the 1970s
   and 1980s, charges have been brought--mostly for crimes against
   humanity--against half a dozen former rulers. In Suriname, the trial
   is about to begin of ex-dictator Desi Bouterse, for his role in the
   summary execution of 15 political opponents in 1982. In Uruguay,
   another former ruler, Juan María Bordaberry, is about to be tried on
   charges relating to murders and "disappearances" in the 1970s.

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                              Wanted back home: Mrs Perón

   Meanwhile, in Spain, María Estela Perón, who succeeded her husband as
   Argentina's president in 1974, is awaiting the outcome of two
   extradition requests from Argentina on charges relating to the killing
   of hundreds of left-wing militants by government-backed execution
   squads.

   She hopes the Spanish courts will adopt the same position as
   Guatemala's Constitutional Court, which last month ruled against the
   extradition to Spain of Efraín Ríos Montt, a former Guatemalan
   dictator, on charges of genocide. Mexico's ex-president, Luis
   Echeverría, may also have been let off the hook after charges relating
   to the killing of student protesters, in 1968 and thereafter, were
   dismissed in July by a Mexican court for falling outside a statute of
   limitations. For most international crimes, there is no time limit.

   Manuel Noriega, a former Panamanian despot, is likely to be less
   lucky. After completing a 17-year sentence in America for
   drug-smuggling in September, he began fighting an extradition request
   by France, where he has already been sentenced in absentia to ten
   years in prison for money-laundering. On January 9th a Florida judge
   rejected his appeal against extradition. He will now probably face a
   retrial.

   Sometimes a country may, of course, be unwilling or unable to
   prosecute its own leaders. In such cases, an international tribunal,
   like the UN-backed Special Court for Sierra Leone, which is trying
   Charles Taylor (in a courtroom loaned from the International Criminal
   Court in The Hague), may step in. All five international tribunals set
   up over the past 15 years explicitly exclude immunity (or amnesty) for
   heads of state charged with war crimes or other atrocities. Mr Taylor
   is only the second serving head of state to be charged with war crimes
   after Slobodan Milosevic. Like Pinochet, the Serb tyrant escaped jail
   by death--in 2006.

   If no competent international tribunal can be found, a country
   unconnected with the case may decide to bring a prosecution in its
   national courts under the principle of "universal jurisdiction". This
   allows a country to try the perpetrator of a serious international
   crime even if neither he nor his victims are nationals and the crime
   has not been committed on its soil. At least eight European countries
   have adopted the principle. It was invoked by Britain in the Pinochet
   case, and also by Belgium to prosecute Mr Habré--until the African
   Union was shamed into asking Senegal, his country of exile, to try him
   instead.

   Exile, once the choice of many a deposed tyrant, no longer seems so
   safe. When Mr Taylor was handed over in 2006 to Sierra Leone's Special
   Court by Nigeria, where he had taken refuge in 2003, Libya's
   president, Muammar Qaddafi, noted nervously that a precedent had been
   set. "This means that every head of state could meet a similar fate,"
   he said. Quite so.


   Needed: a new way to get the Kyoto bargain to work 

   SOME sceptics say the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), part of the
   Kyoto protocol, is like paying someone else to stop smoking for you.
   The basic idea: projects that cut or prevent emissions of greenhouse
   gases in poor countries earn credits, which can be bought by rich
   countries in lieu of curbing their own emissions. After a slow start
   China now leads the pack in using the CDM, accounting for 61% of the
   market in 2006, which was worth nearly $5 billion.

   The logical next stage for the CDM is a switch to a "programmatic"
   approach. Instead of approving abatement projects one at a time, this
   would allow similar projects to be grouped together for approval.
   Typical examples might include rural biogas, solar water-heating and
   small hydropower projects, all of which deliver
   "sustainable-development" gains too, says Anne Arquit Niederberger of
   Policy Solution, a consultancy.

   One specific idea comes from the Joint US-China Co-operation on Clean
   Energy, a non-profit group. It plans to distribute 10m free compact
   fluorescent lamps to homes in China. This could save around 3.5m
   tonnes of carbon-dioxide emissions over four years. This is one of
   three projects being studied as a model for a future approach to the
   CDM. Sceptics are posing some hard questions: who will monitor
   individual projects within a programme? What if the market is flooded
   with credits, and prices crash? Findings from a forthcoming World Bank
   report on the CDM in China will be discussed in Bali; but this may
   produce more questions than answers.


   The scale of an unspeakable horror

   FROM Bosnia's rape camps and the horrors of Rwanda's genocide in the
   1990s to the atrocities being perpetrated daily in northern Congo and
   Sudan's Darfur region, the tally of body bags runs alongside another
   grim body count: the numbers of women and girls, but in some places
   men and boys too, subjected to rape and other forms of sexual
   violence. Reliable and comprehensive figures are hard to come by:
   victims are often too traumatised or too fearful to speak out. But a
   report on "Sexual Violence in Armed Conflict" by the Geneva-based
   Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces (DCAF) picks its way
   as systematically as it can through conflict after conflict, in
   Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe and the Middle East, piecing
   together the evidence.

   It is grim reading. In Bosnia's war up to 50,000 women were subject to
   sexual violence; over 14 years perhaps 40% of Liberia's population
   suffered similar abuse; just under half those interviewed in a
   randomised study in Sierra Leone in 2000 had been raped, and more than
   a quarter had been gang-raped.

   Such sexual violence can lead to severe physical as well as
   psychological damage: high numbers of fistula cases have been reported
   during conflicts in Burundi, Chad, Congo, Rwanda, Sierra Leone,
   Liberia and elsewhere. An earlier DCAF report recorded that an
   estimated 70% of Rwanda's rape survivors were infected with HIV/AIDS.
   The offspring of such violence are often stigmatised or abandoned as
   "children of hate". In other words, the damaging health, economic and
   social consequences live on long after conflicts end.

   Can such violence be curbed? In Darfur, marauding militias prey on
   women and children collecting firewood, food or animal fodder outside
   refugee camps. In some places, African Union peacekeepers have sent
   out trucks with soldiers to follow the women and provide as much
   protection as they can.

   Alongside practical initiatives like these "firewood patrols", DCAF
   calls, as have earlier UN resolutions, for more women peacekeepers.
   They get along better with locals and also improve the behaviour of
   their male counterparts (in Congo in 2005 the UN registered 72
   allegations of sexual violence of one sort or another against its own
   troops; 20 were substantiated). The percentage of women serving in UN
   military and police units is tiny; but some women have recently had
   senior posts in UN missions. And earlier this year Liberia received
   the UN's first-ever all-female contingent--103 Indian policewomen. It
   would help, says DCAF, if victims of sexual violence were more
   involved and better cared for in programmes for disarmament and
   demobilisation.

   But when it comes to curbing sexual violence during conflict, ending a
   culture of impunity is key. The statute of the International Criminal
   Court allows for the prosecution of rape and similar violence as war
   crimes, crimes against humanity and even potentially as acts of
   genocide. Earlier this year the chief prosecutor decided to focus one
   of the court's investigations on atrocities carried out in 2002-03 in
   the Central African Republic--where rapes may have exceeded murders.

   The increasing use of rape, by governments as well as militias, as a
   weapon of war is to be the target of a UN General Assembly resolution
   that is expected to pass soon. After intense lobbying by Sudan (the
   resolution named no names, but evidently the shoe fitted) among the
   UN's Africa group, backed surprisingly by South Africa, the language
   of the resolution has been watered down somewhat. But it still calls
   for the UN secretary-general to report back next year on what is being
   done to protect civilians against sexual violence--and to hold to
   account, among others, governments that target their own citizens in
   this way.


   Indonesia has some worrying radicals but it seems to be following
   Turkey, with Islamists moderating as they get closer to power

                                                                   Magnum

                                   Magnum


   IS INDONESIA, the most populous Muslim-majority country, undergoing
   creeping Islamisation? It is not hard to assemble enough recent
   evidence to give Western Islamophobes goosebumps. In late December a
   mob attacked and burned a prayer house in West Java belonging to
   Ahmadiyah, a sect deemed heretical by some mainstream Islamic
   scholars. Earlier in the month the country's Christian leaders
   complained that Muslim radicals, helped by local officials, had
   carried out a string of attacks on churches. Ten Muslim militants were
   jailed for attacks on Christians on Sulawesi island, including the
   beheading of three schoolgirls. In late November the religious-affairs
   ministry barred a liberal Egyptian scholar, Nasr Hamid Abu Zayd (who
   calls the Koran a "cultural product"), from public speaking in
   Indonesia.

   Behind many recent incidents is a vigilante group, the Islam
   Defenders' Front (FPI), which in September assaulted bars, cafés and
   hotels in Bogor, near Jakarta, accusing them of violating Ramadan.
   Another rising radical force is the Indonesian chapter of
   Hizb-ut-Tahrir, which wants a caliphate to rule the whole Muslim
   world. Last August it gathered perhaps 90,000 supporters in a Jakarta
   stadium. Its leaders condemned democracy on the basis that sovereignty
   lies in God's hands, not the people's. A not dissimilar attack on
   pluralism was made in a hardline fatwa issued in 2005 by the
   Indonesian Ulemas Council (MUI). This same semi-official body recently
   demanded the banning of the liberal Egyptian scholar.

   In 2006 a poll found that one in ten Indonesians supported terrorist
   attacks like the 2002 Bali bombings if intended to "protect the
   faith". Jemaah Islamiah (JI), the terror group behind the Bali
   attacks, is still running several dozen pesantren (boarding schools),
   putting who knows what into impressionable teenage heads. The Bali
   bombers are due to be executed in the next few weeks, possibly
   triggering a backlash by radicals.

   This all sounds worrying. But Indonesia is a huge, varied and complex
   place, and the radicals--even though some have a semi-official
   platform--are a small and not very influential minority. Contrary
   evidence abounds: liberals as well as radicals are making inroads.
   They have won a big battle over a "pornography" law that Islamists
   proposed in 2006. It would have banned bikinis and short skirts, for
   non-Muslim women too, and prohibited the Hindu minority's traditional
   dances. But a public outcry forced lawmakers to strike out all the
   controversial bits--and it still has not passed in parliament. Two new
   anti-terrorist police squads have made much progress in arresting and
   breaking up JI's leadership. There have been no attacks on foreign
   targets for two years.

   As Indonesia democratised after the fall of the (secular) Suharto
   regime in 1998, local authorities gained autonomy and became directly
   elected. Many seized the opportunity to pass sharia-based laws,
   stoking fears of Islamisation. However, Greg Fealy, an Australian
   expert on Indonesian Islam, says these laws, though successful in
   winning votes for the local politicians pushing them, have usually had
   little practical impact. He recently revisited one such district,
   Tasikmalaya, where he found "there were more schoolgirls wearing the
   headscarf but just as much gambling, prostitution and drinking as
   before."

   The formerly separatist region of Aceh was allowed, under a peace pact
   with the rebels, to introduce strict sharia. The move was popular at
   first, says Sidney Jones of the International Crisis Group, a
   think-tank, but there was widespread revulsion when the authorities
   started publicly whipping miscreants. As a result the religious police
   were drastically reined in. Overall, Indonesians seem to prefer the
   idea of living under "God's law" to the practice of it. Indonesian
   Islam has always been distinct from the Middle Eastern kind, infusing
   influences from Hinduism and other religions. This will make it hard
   for fundamentalists to get far, says Muhammad Hikam, a political
   consultant.

   Whereas a relatively small number of fiery militants and
   fundamentalists get most attention, Mr Hikam says that liberal Islamic
   scholars have successfully broken the link between religious piety and
   political Islam. Indonesians seeking a more overt expression of their
   faith, as many do nowadays, can still believe in separation of mosque
   and state. As the 2009 presidential and parliamentary elections
   approach, secular parties have been attracting voters by creating
   Islamic--but not Islamist--wings. The in-phrase, says Mr Fealy, is
   Islam Lunak, "soft Islam". Pollsters are telling politicians that it
   helps to add a mild religious tinge to speeches about social justice
   and anti-corruption. But radical stuff, like preaching an Islamic
   state, is a turn-off.

   Indonesia's two biggest Muslim organisations are Nahdlatul Ulama
   (NU)--whose long-time leader, Abdurrahman Wahid was president of
   Indonesia in 1999-2001--and Muhammadiyah, which together claim around
   70m members. They indeed used to call for an Islamic state. Nowadays
   Masdar Farid Mas'udi, a senior NU figure, says all they mean by an
   "Islamic" state is a just and prosperous one. In some ways the two
   bodies have come to resemble Europe's mainstream Christian churches:
   "Catholic" NU stresses traditional rites and the authority of
   religious leaders, whereas "Protestant" Muhammadiyah stresses the
   primacy of scripture. As with Catholics and Protestants it is family
   tradition, rather than theology, that usually determines which group
   one belongs to. Both now accept Indonesia's secular founding creed,
   pancasila, which preaches religious tolerance (though you are supposed
   to believe in God).

   Moderate success

   Several of the country's political parties began life as the political
   wings of religious movements such as NU and Muhammidiyah. But the
   parties and their parent bodies have drifted apart, even as all have
   mellowed. In recent elections a more religiously conservative group,
   Prosperous Justice (PKS), has gained votes--but polls now show its
   support slumping. One reason is that it backed the pornography law and
   has suffered in the backlash against it.

   Another, admits Zulkieflimansyah, a senior PKS parliamentarian, is
   that it has joined the (secular) coalition of President Susilo Bambang
   Yudhoyono. Its popularity has suffered because of tough policies such
   as cutting fuel subsidies. Mr Zulkieflimansyah sees his party as
   undergoing a desirable process of moderation as it "encounters
   reality". PKS--like longer-established Muslim parties before it--is
   now having to ditch the fire and brimstone to transcend minority
   appeal. Rising younger figures in the party, like him, are more
   comfortable with this than its older generation, who studied in the
   Middle East. In general, the country's larger Muslim parties are
   echoing Turkey's ruling AK party--ditching Islamism while still
   appealing to the pious. Smaller ones still holding to a hard line may
   fare badly in 2009: Mr Fealy reckons that in 200 regional elections in
   the past two-and-a-half years not a single "sectarian" Muslim
   candidate has won.

   Indonesia is, overall, edging away from radical Islamism. But the
   trend is not irreversible, and the authorities must avoid fostering
   fundamentalists by pandering to them. The MUI (the council of mullahs)
   and the FPI (the vigilantes) provide a lesson: both were created, for
   temporary reasons of expediency, by the Suharto regime but both have
   lingered to haunt its democratic successors. Mr Yudhoyono now seems to
   be trying to channel the MUI's radical enthusiasm into issuing fatwas
   against "deviant" Islamic sects like Ahmadiyah. But this only
   encourages the FPI to take up its cudgels.

   Other, more important ways to make sure Indonesia stays on the path to
   democratic pluralism are to keep the economy growing and to boost
   sluggish efforts at reforming graft-ridden public institutions. High
   unemployment provides recruits for communal violence like that in
   Sulawesi--whether or not religion is the spark that ignites the
   tinder. Poverty, combined with disgust at corrupt officialdom, push
   some people towards the Utopian promises of groups such as
   Hizb-ut-Tahrir. In Indonesia, unlike most Muslim countries, the
   ideological struggle between various forms of Islam is being fought
   largely by democratic means. The violent and the intolerant are still
   at the margins and, while the country's steady progress persists, look
   likely to stay there.


                                                                  Eyevine

                                  Eyevine

   The business of marketing the Bible and the Koran says a lot about the
   state of modern Christianity and Islam 

   CHRISTIANS and Muslims have one striking thing in common: they are
   both "people of the book". And they both have an obligation to spread
   the Word--to get those Holy Books into the hands and hearts of as many
   people as they can. (The Jews, the third people of the book, do not
   feel quite the same obligation.)

   Spreading the Word is hard. The Bible is almost 800,000 words long and
   littered with tedious passages about begetting. The Koran is a mere
   four-fifths of the length of the New Testament; but some Westerners
   find it an even more difficult read. Edward Gibbon complained about
   its "endless incoherent rhapsody of fable and precept". Thomas Carlyle
   said that it was "as toilsome reading as I ever undertook; a
   wearisome, confused jumble, crude, incondite".

   Yet over 100m copies of the Bible are sold or given away every year.
   Annual Bible sales in America are worth between $425m and $650m;
   Gideon's International gives away a Bible every second. The Bible is
   available all or in part in 2,426 languages, covering 95% of the
   world's population.

   The Koran is not only the most widely read book in the Islamic world
   but also the most widely recited ("Koran" means "recitation"). There
   is no higher goal in Muslim life than to become a human repository of
   the Holy Book; there is no more common sound in the Muslim world than
   the sound of Koranic recitation.

   Reciting the Koran is the backbone of Muslim education. One of the
   most prized honorifics in Islamic society is "hafiz" or "one who has
   the entire scripture off by heart". Do so in Iran and you get an
   automatic university degree. The great recitors compete in tournaments
   that can attract audiences in the hundreds of thousands--the world
   cups of the Islamic world. The winners'CDs become instant bestsellers.

   The Bible and the Koran have both gone global. In 1900, 80% of the
   world's Christians lived in Europe and the United States. Today 60%
   live in the developing world. More Presbyterians go to church in Ghana
   than in Scotland. In 1900 Islam was concentrated in the Arab world and
   South-East Asia. Today, there may be as many practising Muslims in
   England as there are practising Anglicans; though in the 20th century,
   at least, Islam's expansion has mostly come about through population
   growth and migration, rather than conversion. Muslim "missionary"
   activity is aimed more at reinvigorating the faithful, and encouraging
   them to greater zealotry, than at winning new souls.

   This mountain of Holy Books is a giant refutation of the
   secularisation thesis--the idea that religion recedes as the world
   modernises. "The book lives on among its people," Constance Padwick, a
   scholar of the Koran, has written. "For them these are not mere
   letters or mere words. They are the twigs of the burning bush, aflame
   with God." The same can be said of the Bible.

                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images

   It also poses a couple of intriguing questions. Why are today's
   Christians and Muslims proving so successful at getting the Word out?
   And who is winning the battle of the books? Is either of the world's
   two great missionary religions gaining an edge when it comes to
   getting their Holy Books into people's hands and hearts?

   The straightforward answer to the first question is that Christians
   and Muslims are both proving remarkably adept at using the tools of
   modernity--globalisation, technology and growing wealth--to aid the
   distribution of their Holy Books. "Give me Scotland or I die," John
   Knox once cried. Today's faithful aim for the world.

   The combination of globalisation and rising wealth is proving to be a
   bonanza for both religions. The most prolific producer of Christian
   missionaries, on a per head basis, is now South Korea. The biggest
   Bible publishing houses are in Brazil and South Korea. An interlinked
   global network of 140 national or regional Bible Societies pools
   resources to reach its collective goal of putting a Bible in the hands
   of every man, woman and child on the planet. The American Bible
   Society, the biggest of the lot, has published more than 50m Bibles in
   atheist China.

   Saudi oil wealth is supercharging the distribution of the Koran. The
   kingdom gives away some 30m Korans a year, under the auspices of
   either the Muslim World League or individual billionaires,
   distributing them through a vast network of mosques, Islamic societies
   and even embassies. Go to [3]FreeKoran.com and you can have a free
   book in your hands in weeks.

   Saudi-funded dissemination of the Koran, along with literature
   promoting the stern Saudi understanding of Islam, may not have much
   direct effect on Christians, or the unchurched. But it does increase
   the relative weight, within Islam, of teachings which tend to sharpen
   the Christian-Muslim divide. For example, traditional Muslim teaching
   stresses those passages in the Koran which affirm the Christian Gospel
   and the Hebrew Torah as valid revelations of God and paths to
   salvation. But there is a harsher, Saudi-influenced view which insists
   that since Muhammad delivered the final revelation, Christianity and
   Judaism have lost their power to save.

   The Muslim diaspora and Muslim missionaries are bringing the faith to
   previously untouched areas. The Tablighi Jamaat ("the group that
   propagates the faith") is a global network of part-time preachers who
   dress like the Prophet, in a white robe and leather sandals, and
   travel in small groups to spread the Word. Their annual gatherings in
   India and Pakistan attract hundreds of thousands.

   Technology is proving to be a friend of the Holy Books. You can
   consult them on the internet. You can read them on your "Psalm pilot"
   or mobile phone. You can listen to them on MP3 players or iPods
   ("podcasting" has given rise to "Godcasting"). Want to "plug into God
   without unplugging from life"? Then simply buy a Go Bible MP3 player.
   Want to memorise the Koran? Then buy an MP3 player that displays the
   words as you listen. Want to network with like-minded people? Then the
   eBible allows you to discuss biblical passages with virtual friends.

   Several television channels and radio stations do nothing but
   broadcast the Koran. At the other end of the technological spectrum,
   the American Bible Society produces an audio device, powered by a
   battery or hand crank and no bigger than a couple of cigar boxes, that
   can broadcast the Bible to a crowd of a hundred.

                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images

                            A well-thumbed Book

   There is a difference, however, between getting and understanding a
   Holy Book. Here both Christianity and Islam suffer from serious
   problems. Americans buy more than 20m new Bibles every year to add to
   the four that the average American has at home. Yet the state of
   American biblical knowledge is abysmal. A Gallup survey found that
   less than half of Americans can name the first book of the Bible
   (Genesis), only a third know who delivered the Sermon on the Mount
   (Billy Graham is a popular answer) and a quarter do not know what is
   celebrated at Easter (the resurrection, the foundational event of
   Christianity). Sixty per cent cannot name half the ten commandments;
   12% think Noah was married to Joan of Arc. George Gallup, a leading
   Evangelical as well as a premier pollster, describes America as "a
   nation of biblical illiterates".

   Muslims greatly prefer to read the Koran in the original Arabic. Yet
   the archaic language and high-flown verse, while inspiring, can also
   be difficult to understand even for educated Arabic speakers. And only
   20% of Muslims speak Arabic as their first language. Illiteracy rates
   are high across the Muslim world. Many students of the Holy Book do
   not understand much of what they are memorising.

   This needs to be kept in mind when considering who is winning the
   battle of the books. For some, the question is an abomination. Can't
   both sides win by converting the heathen? And aren't Christianity and
   Islam fellow Abrahamic faiths--different versions of the Truth? Others
   worry that the question is impossible to answer, since there are no
   systematic figures on the distribution of the Koran, and the battle's
   front-line cuts through some of the darkest and most dangerous places
   on the planet. Muslims would argue that their struggle was aimed more
   at galvanising their own flock than at converting unbelievers. But
   Islam's relative introversion doesn't make for peaceful coexistence.
   In many parts of the world, Islamic authorities have reacted furiously
   to attempts by Christians to entice Muslims to "apostasise" or
   renounce their faith; in traditional Islamic law, the penalty for
   apostasy is death; and encouraging believers to apostasise is also
   treated as a crime.

   In many parts of the world, battle seems to be in progress. The Saudis
   will not allow the Bible to be distributed on their soil. Many
   Evangelical Christians are fixated on what they call the 10/40
   window--the vast swathe of the Islamic world in Africa and Asia that
   lies between latitudes 10 and 40 north of the equator. The
   Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary in Texas has even created a
   masters degree to train missionaries in the art of converting Muslims.
   Some Evangelicals produce counterfeit Korans that are designed to
   plant doubt in Muslim minds.

   And the battle of the books is certainly at the heart of the battle
   between the two religions. People who get hold of Bibles or Korans may
   not read them or understand them. Unless they are introduced to the
   books they will certainly remain heathens. Even an imperfect report on
   the state of the battle tells us a lot about the world's two great
   missionary religions.

   The Christians entered the 21st century with a big head start. There
   are 2 billion of them in the world compared with 1.5 billion Muslims.
   But Islam had a better 20th century than Christianity. The world's
   Muslim population grew from 200m in 1900 to its current levels.
   Christianity has shrivelled in Christendom's European heart. Islam is
   resurgent across the Arab world. Many Christian scholars predict that
   Islam will overtake Christianity as the world's largest religion by
   2050.

   More recently, though, Muslims complain that the "war on terror" is
   making it much more difficult to spread the Koran. Contributions to
   Muslim charities have fallen since September 11th 2001. Several
   charities have had their funding disrupted. Missionary organisations
   such as the Tablighi Jamaat are under investigation by Western
   intelligence services, on the grounds that they may be way-stations to
   jihadism. And Muslims confront much bigger long-term problems in the
   battle of the books.

   The first is Christianity's superior marketing skills. Its religious
   publishing houses are big businesses. Thomas Nelson, which was once
   owned by a former door-to-door Bible salesman, was bought in 2005 for
   $473m. And secular publishing houses have also got religion:
   HarperCollins bought Zondervan, a religious book publisher, in the
   late 1980s, and now most mainstream publishers are trying to produce
   their own Bibles. As a result, all the tricks of the publisher's trade
   are being applied to the Bible.

   Consider product proliferation. Thomas Nelson publishes 60 different
   editions of the Bible every year. The Good Book now comes in all
   colours, including those of your college. There are Bibles for every
   sort of person, from "seekers" to cowboys, from brides to barmen.
   There is a waterproof outdoor Bible and a camouflage Bible for use in
   war zones. The "100 minute Bible" summarises the Good Book for the
   time-starved.

   Consider user-friendliness. There are prayer books in everyday
   vernacular or even street slang ("And even though I walk through/The
   Hood of death/I don't back down/for you have my back"). Or consider
   innovation. In 2003 Thomas Nelson dreamt up the idea of
   Bible-zines--crosses between Bibles and teenage magazines. The pioneer
   was Revolve, which intercuts the New Testament with beauty tips and
   relationship advice ("are you dating a Godly guy?"). This was quickly
   followed by Refuel, for boys, and Blossom and Explore, for tweens.

                                                  [spacer.gif] [gray.gif]
                                                             [spacer.gif]
          The world's richest and most powerful country contains some 80m
                                                             Evangelicals
                                                             [spacer.gif]
                                                               [gray.gif]

   There are toddler-friendly versions of the most famous Bible stories.
   The "Boy's Bible" promises "gross and gory Bible stuff". The "Picture
   Bible" looks like a super-hero comic. "God's Little Princess
   Devotional Bible" is pink and sparkly.

   There are about 900 English translations of the Bible, ranging from
   the grandiloquent to the colloquial. There are translations into
   languages, such as Inupiat and Gullah, that are spoken by only
   handfuls of people. Bob Hudson, of the American Bible Society, wants
   everybody on the planet to be able to claim that "God speaks my
   language". A couple of eccentric geeks have even translated the Bible
   into Klingon, a language spoken only by scrofulous space aliens on
   "Star Trek".

   Publishers are producing sophisticated dramatisations of the Bible
   with famous actors and state-of-the-art sound effects. Zondervan's
   "The Bible Experience" features every black actor in Hollywood from
   Denzel Washington to Samuel L. Jackson. Other outfits are making films
   that dramatise Bible stories as faithfully as possible.

   And then there are the spin-offs. A "fully posable" Jesus doll recites
   famous passages of the Good Book. There are Bible quiz books, stuffed
   with crosswords and other word puzzles, and Bible bingo games. There
   are Bible colouring books, sticker books and floor puzzles. There is
   even a Bible-based juke box that plays your favourite biblical
   passages.

   Muslims have also gone into the Holy Book business, but nowhere near
   as enthusiastically as Christians. This is partly because their
   commercial publishing houses are smaller and less sophisticated, but
   also because Muslims believe that the Koran is the literal word of
   God--dictated to Muhammad (who was himself illiterate) by the Angel
   Gabriel and then written down by Muhammad's followers. "The Koran does
   not document what is other than itself," one scholar notes. "It is not
   about the truth. It is the truth."

                                                            Thomas Nelson
                                                            Thomas Nelson

   This makes Muslims uncomfortable with translations. The Holy Book says
   sternly that "we have sent no messenger save with the tongue of his
   people." Today most Muslims tolerate translations--there are now more
   than 20 English translations--but do so reluctantly. Most translations
   are as literal as possible. Pious Muslims are expected to learn God's
   language.

   The second advantage the Christians have is America. The world's
   richest and most powerful country contains some 80m Evangelicals. It
   supports more missionaries, more broadcasting organisations and more
   global publishers than any other country. Despite some countries' oil
   wealth, the Koran's heartland is relatively poor. The Arab world has
   one of the highest illiteracy rates in the world, with a fifth of men
   and two-fifths of women unable to read. It also has one of the lowest
   rates of internet usage.

   The third big advantage is the West's belief in religious
   freedom--guaranteed in America by the constitution, and in Europe by
   an aversion to religious persecution caused by centuries of it. The
   heartland of Islam, by contrast, is theocratic. The Saudi Ministry of
   Islamic Affairs, Endowment, Call and Guidance employs 120,000 people,
   including 72,000 imams. Saudi Arabia bans non-Islamic worship and
   regards attempts to convert Muslims to another faith as a criminal
   offence. Pakistan has witnessed the attacks on Christian missionaries.
   Sudan punishes "religious deviation" with imprisonment.

   Christian Evangelists complain that this creates an uneven playing
   field: Muslims can build giant mosques in "Christian lands" while
   Christians are barred from distributing Bibles in Saudi Arabia and
   Iran. But uneven playing fields tend to weaken the home players. Open
   competition is a boon to religion: American Evangelism has flourished
   precisely because America has no official church. And theocracy is
   ultimately a source of sloth and conservatism. "The Book and the
   Koran", by Muhammad Shahrur, which tried to reinterpret the Koran for
   modern readers, was widely banned in the Islamic world, despite its
   pious tone and huge popularity.

   This state-of-the-battle report comes with a health warning.
   Predicting the fate of religions is unwise, for they can burn or
   gutter in unpredictable ways. But two things are certain in the battle
   of the books. The first is that the urge to spread the Word will spark
   some of the fiercest conflicts of the 21st century. The area that is
   being most heavily fought over--sub-Saharan Africa--is a tinder box of
   failed states and ethnic animosities. The second is that the Bible and
   the Koran will continue to exercise a dramatic influence over human
   events, for both good and ill. The twigs of the burning bush are still
   aflame with the fire of God.


   An article ("[3]The Maladies of Affluence", August 11th) wrongly
   called Plymouth Rock the first permanent European settlement in North
   America. Apologies to the inhabitants of Mexico City (Cortés arrived
   1519); St Augustine, Florida (1565); St John's, Newfoundland (1605),
   and anyone else with a prior claim.


   Curbing dangerous nuclear technologies gets trickier

   WHEN Russia announced it had started shipping low-enriched uranium
   fuel to power the civilian nuclear reactor it is helping Iran build at
   Bushehr, George Bush tried to squeeze some comfort out of a piece of
   news which--for the international effort to curb Iran's nuclear
   ambitions--was a disappointing about-turn. "If the Iranians accept
   that [Russian] uranium for a civilian power plant, then there's no
   need for them to learn how to enrich," he said on December 17th.

   True, in theory. But Iran refuses to follow such logic. By making
   long-delayed fuel shipments to Bushehr now, Russia will weaken further
   the UN Security Council effort to end Iran's defiance. It also risks
   undermining plans to limit the spread of dangerous nuclear
   technologies at a time when many governments, including a number in
   the volatile Middle East, plan to invest in nuclear power.

   Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, insists Iran will not stop its
   own fuel-making: another 50,000 or more will eventually be added to
   the 3,000 centrifuge machines now spinning at its uranium-enrichment
   plant at Natanz. These, say its nuclear officials, will provide
   low-enriched uranium (used for making electricity, but at higher
   enrichment levels for bomb-making) for a separate, indigenously built
   360MW reactor at Darkhovin, in the province of Khuzistan.

   This is a puzzle. Iranian engineers are already building a 40MW
   "research" reactor at Arak that is worryingly too big for research,
   too small for electricity generation and ideally suited to produce
   plutonium (another bomb ingredient) from its spent fuel, but they lack
   skills both in reactor design and in the manufacture of the larger
   parts needed for power reactors, says Gary Samore of the New
   York-based Council on Foreign Relations. Unless Iran gets outside help
   (the Arak designs were provided by freelancing Russian scientists),
   Darkhovin could be just an excuse for Iran's continuing its own
   enrichment work.

   With Iran so obdurate, why the changed tack over Bushehr? In 2005
   Russia said no fuel would go while questions remained about Iran's
   peaceful intentions. But inspectors have plenty of those.

   Holding back on the fuel for Bushehr was one bit of Russian leverage
   in the nuclear dispute with Iran that is now being lost. Similarly, Mr
   Bush's refusal to take the option of a strike against Iran's nuclear
   facilities off the table seems a lot less credible since a recent
   National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) concluded that Iran had suspended
   some elements of a weapons programme in 2003. (Israel and some
   European governments are worried those efforts may have resumed; and
   they and American officials point out that at the very least Iran
   persists with its potentially weapons-usable enrichment work.)

   Russia's decision on fuel shipments was made before the NIE was
   published. Commercial concerns may have tipped Russia's hand, says
   Mark Fitzpatrick of the London-based International Institute for
   Strategic Studies, a think-tank. It wants to be seen as a reliable
   supplier, so as to pick up more reactor contracts from others. Russia,
   America, some Europeans, Japan and others with advanced nuclear
   fuel-related technologies also have ideas for fuel-supply services and
   spent-fuel management as an incentive for governments not to follow in
   Iran's nuclear footsteps. But Russia is helping Iran show you can have
   it all.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

                   At last, some relatively welcome news

   The global AIDS epidemic is still bad, but not as bad as it once
   seemed

   ON THE face of things, a fall in the number of people infected with
   HIV (the virus that causes AIDS) from 39.5m to 33.2m over the course
   of a single year, as reported in this year's AIDS epidemic update from
   the World Health Organisation (WHO) and UNAIDS, should be cause for
   rejoicing. Indeed, it is, for it means there are fewer people to
   treat, and fewer to pass the infection on, than was previously
   thought. But the fall is not a real fall. Rather, it is due to a
   change in the way the size of the epidemic is estimated.

   If you factor in that change, the number of infected individuals has
   actually risen since last year, by 500,000. Yet even that is not
   necessarily bad news in the paradoxical world of AIDS. As treatment
   programmes are rolled out around the world, death rates are falling.
   According to the revised figures, the lethal peak, of 2.2m a year, was
   in 2005. Now the figure is 2.1m. Since the only way for an infected
   person to drop out of the statistics in reality (as opposed to by
   sleight of statistical hand) is for him to die, such increased
   survivorship inevitably pushes up the total size of the epidemic.

   The best news of all, however, is that the new figures confirm what
   had previously been suspected--that the epidemic has peaked. The
   highest annual number of new infections around the world was 3.4m in
   1998. That figure has now fallen to 2.5m.

   Both the change in the death rate and the change in the infection rate
   are partly a consequence of the natural flow and ebb of any epidemic
   infection. But they are also a reflection of the hard graft of
   public-health workers in many countries, who have persuaded millions
   of people to modify or abandon risky behaviour, such as having
   unprotected sex, as they have also created the medical infrastructure
   needed to distribute anti-retroviral drugs that can keep symptoms at
   bay in those who do become infected.

   The revision of the figures is mainly a result of better
   data-collection methods, particularly in India (which accounts for
   half the downward revision) and five African countries (which account
   for another fifth). In India many more sampling points have been
   established, and in all countries better survey methods, relying on
   surveyors knocking on doors rather than asking questions at clinics,
   have gathered data from more representative samples.

   Sceptics will feel vindicated by the revision. They have suspected for
   a while that the older survey methods were biased, and that the
   inflation thus produced was tolerated because it helped twang the
   heart-strings of potential donors. However, the structures for
   collecting and distributing money to combat AIDS are now well
   established, and accurate data are crucial if that money is not to be
   misdirected. The new information also means that the goal of treatment
   for all who need it will be easier and cheaper to achieve. The WHO and
   UNAIDS are planning to publish a report on the matter early next year,
   but Paul De Lay, UNAIDS's director of evidence, monitoring and policy,
   says that the financial requirements for 2010 will probably be about
   5% less than previously estimated, and that by 2015 that figure will
   have risen to 10%. Good news for everyone, then, donors and sufferers
   alike.


   Rapid internet services are a boon. But not all regulators understand
   them

   IN ERAS past, economic success depended on creating networks that
   could shift people, merchandise and electric power as efficiently and
   as widely as possible. Today's equivalent is broadband: the high-speed
   internet service that has become as vital a tool for producers and
   distributors of goods as it is for people plugging into all the social
   and cultural opportunities offered by the web.

   Easy access to cheap, fast internet services has become a facilitator
   of economic growth and a measure of economic performance. No wonder,
   then, that statistics show a surge in broadband use, especially in
   places that are already prosperous. The OECD, a rich-country club,
   says the number of subscribers in its 30 members was 221m last June--a
   24% leap over a year earlier. But it is not always the most powerful
   economies that are most wired. In Denmark, the Netherlands and
   Switzerland, over 30% of inhabitants have broadband. In America, by
   contrast, the proportion is 22%, only slightly above the OECD average
   of just under 20%.

   In terms of speed, Japan leads the world. Its average advertised
   download speed is 95 megabits per second. France and Korea are ranked
   second and third, but are less than half as fast, and the median among
   OECD countries is not much more than a tenth. America's average speed
   is supposed to be a bit above the median, but most users find that it
   isn't, or that the faster speeds are vastly more expensive. A New
   Yorker who wants the same quality of broadband as a Parisian has to
   pay around $150 more per month.

   What accounts for the differences among rich countries? Two or three
   years ago demography was often cited: small, densely populated
   countries were easier to wire up than big, sparsely inhabited ones.
   But the leaders in broadband usage include Canada, where a tiny
   population is spread over a vast area. The best explanation, in fact,
   is that broadband thrives on a mix of competition and active
   regulation, to ensure an open contest.

   A lack of competition-boosting oversight is one reason for the poor
   record of the United States (and indeed for New Zealand, another
   unexpected laggard). Most Americans have a choice of only two
   broadband providers, either a telecoms or a cable operator. This
   virtual duopoly suits both sorts of provider, and neither has raced to
   offer its customers faster access. In some American states, prices
   have risen; in most other countries they have dropped.

   In theory, America's 1996 Telecoms Act obliged operators to rent out
   their lines to rivals; in practice, a regulatory decision and then a
   court ruling (in 2003 and 2004 respectively) have made it easy for
   operators to keep competitors out. The supposed aim of these decisions
   was to force new firms to build their own infrastructure, instead of
   piggybacking on facilities set up by older outfits. But new entrants
   have found it hard to join the fray.

   In any event, those American rulings may have been based on a faulty
   idea of how competition works in this area. As Taylor Reynolds, an
   OECD analyst, puts it, innovation usually comes in steps: newcomers
   first rent space on an existing network, to build up customers and
   income. Then they create new and better infrastructure, as and when
   they need it.

   In France, for example, the regulator forced France Télécom to rent
   out its lines. One small start-up firm benefited from this opportunity
   and then installed technology that was much faster than any of its
   rivals'. It won so many customers that other operators had to follow
   suit. In Canada, too, the regulator mandated line-sharing, and
   provinces subsidised trunk lines from which smaller operators could
   lease capacity to provide service.

   In South Korea, where half the population lives in flats, each block
   owns its own internal cabling and allows rival operators to put their
   equipment in the basement; each tenant then chooses which to use. In
   Japan, politicians put pressure on the dominant operator, NTT, to
   connect people's homes by high-speed fibre lines. And this week the
   communications ministry indicated that it will make NTT open those
   fibre connections to rivals.

   As broadband grows more popular, the political mood may change in many
   countries. At present, consumers are often misled by the speeds that
   operators promise to deliver. Soon regulators can expect to face
   pressure to ensure truth in advertising, as well as to promote easier
   access.

   Pressure will also come to correct another problem: most operators cap
   the amount of traffic users may send and receive each month, and
   nearly all provide far less speed for sending than for receiving. In
   other words, broadband doesn't really offer a two-way street. This
   will matter more as users turn into creators of content, from videos
   to blogs, and ask to be treated with due respect.


   Electronic activism is stirring a lot of citizens into life, whatever
   leaders think 

   WHATEVER might unite or divide them, George Bush, Vladimir Putin and
   the other leaders of the G8 nations will have a fresh topic for small
   talk, and perhaps serious talk, when they meet in Germany this summer.

   They and their underlings will all have been bombarded with e-mails
   from every country in the world urging them to take faster action over
   climate change--in a campaign mounted by [3]Avaaz.org, a new web-based
   protest movement which aspires to be the biggest and broadest such
   organisation in a crowded field.

   The newly founded movement claims to have nearly 1m members already,
   after pooling resources from three of the world's most successful
   mobilisers of e-protest: America's [4]Moveon.org (which gave important
   help to some Democrats in last year's congressional election), [5]Res
   Publica (an American-based, but globally-minded advocacy movement
   which often reflects the "religious left") and Australia's
   [6]GetUp.org.au, which has used billboards and sky-writing as well as
   e-mails to campaign for things like refugee rights and the release of
   an Aussie (arrested in Afghanistan in 2001) from Guantánamo Bay.

   As television viewers in Berlin, Delhi, Paris and Washington, DC will
   have noticed in recent days, Avaaz.org has chosen global warming as
   the focus of its first big campaign. It has paid for TV advertisements
   which show George Bush, Vladimir Putin and Jacques Chirac lying fast
   asleep while evidence of climate change swirls all around them.
   Viewers are invited to visit the Avaaz site and push the necessary
   button to give the world leaders a deafening wake-up call.

   Ricken Patel, the Canadian-British director of Avaaz--a name which
   means "voice" in several languages--says one of the intentions is to
   act as a lightning rod during "moments of global consciousness" such
   as the aftermath of the 9/11 terrorist attacks or the 2004 tsunami. He
   cites the battle against AIDS, curbs on landmines and poor-world debt
   forgiveness as issues on which the thinking of the powerful has
   already been swayed by grass-roots activism, much of it electronically
   co-ordinated.

   But there are catches, aren't there? As the e-protest movement grows
   broader, its focus will surely become less sharp. After all, everyone
   can agree that governments should "do more" about climate change, but
   when it comes to choosing between specific responses it may be harder
   to teach the world to click in perfect harmony.

   And there is no reason to assume that global e-campaigns will always
   be mounted in "progressive" causes: what about e-movements for the
   death penalty, or for more curbs on immigration? But the founders of
   Avaaz do have at least one argument on their side. Voters' faith in
   old-fashioned parties is at a low ebb in many democracies. One of the
   proudest boasts by GetUp, the Australian movement, is that it has more
   members than any of the country's parties have signed-up members.
   E-protest may or may not disrupt the sleep patterns of world leaders;
   but it has already made life more interesting for hundreds of
   thousands of jaded citizens.


   Wanted: medicine for a group whose voice is still too small to be
   heard

   IMAGINE a class of human beings, amounting to about one-third of
   world's population, whose needs are barely noticed by the people who
   are dealing with all the most pressing public-health problems. In
   fact, such a group exists: children, especially those in poor
   countries who are often among the first victims of epidemics and other
   life-threatening upheavals.

   According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), about 60 essential
   medicines are unavailable in formulations appropriate for use by
   children. A general lack of child-friendly drugs has been made more
   obvious by the particular difficulty of treating children with
   HIV/AIDS, who have to ingest massive doses of nasty stuff. "Some kids
   with HIV need to take 12 huge tablets a day...and they taste
   horrible," says Hans Hogerzeil, a specialist on medicines at the WHO.
   There are no suitable combination drugs--medicines that have two or
   more active ingredients, thus reducing the number of pills needed--no
   soluble tablets and very few syrups, he adds.

   In the hope of making these and other medicines go down in at least a
   more bearable way, the WHO is trying to raise $50m from its member
   governments, for a fund that would kick-start the development of
   children's drugs--and highlight the need for governments and firms to
   pay more attention to youngsters' medical needs. Some rich countries
   have already taken steps in that direction. For example, America's
   Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act, passed in 2002, puts more onus
   on the Food and Drug Administration to take children's needs into
   account when certifying drugs. But that law has more to do with
   avoiding risk to children than with helping positively to treat them.

   Creating new drugs for children, especially babies, is not a
   straightforward business. Children metabolise drugs in a way that is
   quite different from adults. And when combination drugs are put
   together--for HIV/AIDS, for example--the proportions that suit
   children are not the same as those needed by grown-ups. In fact,
   combination pills for children can be three times more expensive than
   adult doses, because they are harder to make. Still, the WHO has
   identified a dozen combination drugs that ought to be developed in
   order to treat children with malaria, tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS.

   The WHO wants some of its proposed fund to pay for the basic research
   necessary to create children's formulations. It will initially focus
   on a small group of diseases that account for most deaths among the
   under-fives, including HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, pneumonia and
   various forms of diarrhoea. The biggest problems in children's
   medicine concern diseases that afflict the poor. But the shortage of
   child-friendly medicine is not confined to poor countries. Even in
   Europe, fewer than half of the drugs administered to children have
   been tested and authorised for their use. And there are gaps in the
   treatment of diseases not unusual among rich-world children, including
   epilepsy and psychotic conditions.

   At present, very few clinical trials are conducted in children, partly
   because obtaining "informed consent" is hardly possible. (The WHO
   hopes that countries can at least compare notes on how to get round
   that problem.) This in turn deters pharmaceutical firms from
   researching and developing child-friendly medicines, and generic drug
   producers from producing low-cost versions. And before testing any new
   formulation on children, paediatric specialists have to make very hard
   judgments about the benefits and risks.

   However, there are also risks in not creating children's drugs. At the
   moment, the lack of proper formulations forces health workers and
   parents to use fractions of the adult dosage; or else they resort to
   makeshift solutions such as crushing pills (and mixing them with
   something nice) or dissolving portions of capsules in water.

   The WHO's hope is that by putting some public funds into research, it
   will lessen the risks for private firms, and simultaneously "convince
   and shame them into investing a bit more". The Geneva-based body is
   also giving gentle encouragement to those companies that have already
   started trying to close some of the more scandalous gaps. For example,
   the latest drugs for malaria, based on artemisin, have no
   child-friendly version, despite the fact that fully 40% of malaria
   cases occur in children. Sanofi-aventis, a pharmaceutical firm based
   in Paris, has been working to develop a new malaria drug for children.
   The WHO is backing this effort by helping the company make
   evaluations; the drug may soon--perhaps as early as February--be
   approved for UN procurement.

   As for tuberculosis, another deadly killer of the young, no effective,
   child-friendly drug exists at present, even though the scientific
   knowledge to produce one certainly does. That is just one reason, say
   the policymakers at the WHO, why urgent action is needed to give that
   big, voiceless interest group a better chance of growing up.


   Good news, but no certainty of salvation, for forests and their
   friends


   IF THE Bali conference on climate change brought good news to anyone,
   it must surely be the inhabitants of the rainforests and others
   committed to preserving those trees. But their reactions have been
   mixed, ranging from delight to scepticism.

   For rainforest campaigners, the Bali statement's allusion to an urgent
   need for "meaningful action to reduce emissions from deforestation and
   forest degradation" was a sweet victory, even if the only concrete
   step in that direction was a "work programme" to test various
   approaches.

   Under the current regime (expiring in 2012), financial rewards for
   storing carbon through trees were attached only to reforestation or
   planting new forests. That restriction became hard to justify as
   evidence mounted that the destruction of tropical forests caused as
   much as 20% of heat-trapping greenhouse emissions.

   But including "avoided deforestation" in a post-2012 strategy will
   transform the politics of climate change, globally and inside some
   countries. For example, with deforestation taken into account,
   Indonesia and Brazil soar up the table to become the world's third-
   and fourth-largest emitters.

   When the Kyoto protocol was negotiated, deforestation was excluded
   partly on scientific grounds; people couldn't agree on its precise
   effects, or on how to measure the carbon loss. Those problems have now
   been laid to rest by better technology.

   But other things have not been settled. Brazil's leaders want a system
   to reward whole countries for bringing their deforestation rates down
   to pre-1990 levels and keeping them there. It so happens that Brazil
   may be the only nation that qualifies. Most other people (including
   the governor of Brazil's Amazonas state and its indigenous leaders)
   back a more local and market-based approach.

   In any case, systems that rely on the honesty and power of governments
   will run into problems. Zealous greens are wary of carbon-trading on
   the moral ground that it lets the rich off the hook; in fact,
   investors in carbon markets will be the first to shun conservation
   projects that are manifestly failing because of bad government or
   corruption.

   Take Indonesia, where 80% of deforestation is of dubious legality.
   Weak law enforcement is the main problem. Contradictory
   policies--resulting, recently, in a spat between police and the
   forestry ministry in Sumatra--are another. A decade ago, Indonesia's
   illegal logging mainly served the pulp and timber industries. Now palm
   oil, an "ecological" product, is the big driving force. Recent
   research suggests that for every dollar invested in oil-palm
   plantations, $20 is recouped in a few years, even without the one-off
   gain from selling timber. Even if palm-oil prices slip downwards,
   forest-conservation plans would need to be very robust to compete.

   And it is still unclear who would get the money for reducing
   deforestation. A bad taste was left by the World Bank's failure to
   consult the UN Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues before launching a
   "carbon partnership facility" designed to keep forests intact--an
   error, the bank insists, that is now being rectified.

   The decisions taken at Bali call for a couple more years of trial and
   error before finding the best way to keep trees standing. But the
   chainsaws won't stand still.


   The growing danger of falling between the cracks of geopolitics and
   war 

   THEY are people who struggle to make their voice heard, but the world
   is likely to hear more and more about them. If they all belonged to
   one nation, it would be a fair size, as big as Chile or Kazakhstan.
   Yet by definition, they belong to no country at all: they are the
   world's growing band of stateless people who have no citizenship
   rights, and are often unable to claim the things that states can
   provide, like travel documents and education. According to
   international officials whose job is to cope with human flotsam and
   jetsam, the problem of statelessness is growing fast, despite a modest
   decline in the number of refugees in the strict sense.

   In a cautious estimate, the office of the United Nations High
   Commissioner for Refugees reported that in the course of 2006 the
   number of stateless persons had climbed from 2.4m to 5.8m. That was
   one reason for a recent spike (see chart) in the number of "people of
   concern" to the UNHCR. A better guess for the stateless, says Maureen
   Lynch of Refugees International, an aid agency, is at least 11m; some
   UNHCR officials say the total figure, using looser criteria, could be
   15m.

   Some people become stateless because they are forced out of one
   country, and no other nation will accept them, or even grant them the
   rights which "refugees"--people who seek shelter because of a proven
   risk of persecution--can claim. Some people never leave home but find
   they are stranded by a shift in borders. Also ranked among the
   stateless are marginal groups who cannot claim civic rights because
   their births went unrecorded.

   As a classic case of statelessness, take the Biharis of Bangladesh.
   They mostly took the West Pakistani side in the 1971 war that led to
   the creation of Bangladesh, ensuring that they were unwelcome in the
   new state. Some were moved in organised exchanges--until Pakistan
   stopped taking them. Perhaps 300,000 remain stateless.

   In fact, legal limbo is not an either-or condition; there are degrees
   of statelessness. Among the Palestinians (and their descendants) who
   fled during the war that followed Israel's creation, some--those in
   Jordan--were given passports, but in other Arab states, they simply
   got "refugee travel documents". No Arab state wanted to naturalise the
   newcomers, but their level of rights has varied from place to place.

   In 1991, in newly free Estonia, those inhabitants (mainly Russians)
   who were there as a result of the Soviet occupation could claim
   citizenship only if they passed a language test. Many have. The
   remainder are not wholly without rights; they may vote in municipal
   elections, for example. A "non-citizen" of law-abiding Estonia may
   enjoy more state protection than a subject of some ramshackle place
   where state power is either absent or murderous.

   Still, there are some strange, avoidable forms of statelessness that
   reflect quirks of history. When the Arab Gulf states were formed, some
   used tribal affiliation rather than borders to determine citizenship.
   This left many stateless, including the bidoun ("without" in Arabic)
   of Kuwait; perhaps 100,000 people who cannot prove their family's
   residence in Kuwait since 1920, and thus cannot become citizens under
   a harsh 1959 citizenship law. The situation is exacerbated by a
   feature common to all but three Arab states: mothers married to
   non-citizens cannot claim citizenship for their children. The bidoun
   forfeit the amenities that the oil-rich emirate showers on its
   citizens, including education.

   António Guterres, the current high commissioner for refugees, says
   more and more countries agree, at least, that statelessness is a
   problem; and several have taken steps to alleviate it. One happy story
   is that of Nepal, where poverty and isolation had left some 3.4m
   people, some ethnically non-Nepali, outside the purview of the state.
   This year, the government managed to register 2.6m of them.

   Elsewhere, legal changes are easing the problem. Egypt, Morocco and
   Algeria have altered their family law to allow mothers to pass on
   their citizenship. Bangladesh's government has recommended giving
   citizenship to the Biharis. Even Kuwait is tackling the bidoun; there
   was a parliamentary enquiry into the issue in 2006 and a promise, this
   year, to begin widening citizenship, initially to a mere 2,000 people.

   But a 1961 convention on reducing statelessness has been signed by
   just 34 countries, most recently by New Zealand, Rwanda and Brazil.
   Many states are wary of losing sovereignty or undertaking expensive
   obligations. Welcome as they are, the recent efforts to tackle the
   problem fall far short of what is needed to put into practice the 1948
   Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which lays down that every
   human being is entitled to a nationality.


   An economist with an unusual past

   THIRTY years ago China's leaders used to call the World Bank a tool of
   imperialism. Now China is one of the bank's top borrowers, and in
   December it became a donor, on a small scale.

   China may soon make a big contribution to the bank's intellectual
   ranks. According to whispers at the institution, its new chief
   economist will be a Chinese citizen. Justin Yifu Lin is the director
   of the China Centre for Economic Research at Peking University. He has
   twice won his country's top economic honour, the Sun Yefang award, and
   he has published in the leading journal of his profession, the
   American Economic Review. But this brilliant record masks an unlikely
   past. He was born not in China but in Taiwan. He defected to the
   mainland after serving in the Taiwanese armed forces.

   After earning a master's degree in political economy from Peking
   University, at a time when it was still steeped in Marxism, he earned
   an economics doctorate from the University of Chicago, where the
   market reigns. So his intellectual portfolio is perfectly hedged. That
   will serve him well in his new post. His adopted land has become an
   inspiration to many poor countries, especially in Africa. Their
   policymakers argue that China's path to prosperity defies and
   discredits the simple formulas propagated in Washington.

   Mr Lin is a student of China's economic reforms. But his scholarship,
   like his past, straddles ideological gaps. He believes governments go
   wrong when they defy the law of comparative advantage, promoting heavy
   industries in countries where capital is scarce and labour abundant.
   The government's first duty, he argues, is "to remove all possible
   obstacles for the function of free, open and competitive markets".
   Spoken like a Chicago man.

   But Mr Lin also says government has a second duty. As an economy
   develops, the state should coax firms into more sophisticated
   industries. This prodding may be needed for several reasons. To cite
   one: firms may not know which industries are viable, and which are
   not. So the government should subsidise pioneers who break a path for
   others.

   Washington's financial institutions were once notorious for their
   dogmatic prescriptions. Now they prefer piecemeal reforms and eclectic
   advice. That is a tide Mr Lin can probably swim with.


   Judges and parliamentarians are restraining the zeal of governments
   who want a free hand to fight terror. The third in our series

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

                                    Guantánamo: where rights are shackled

   HAULED before a military tribunal at the American naval base in
   Guantánamo Bay, the detainee, picked up in Afghanistan, asked why he
   was being held. For associating with a member of al-Qaeda, he was
   told. Give me his name, the detainee demanded. The tribunal's
   president said he didn't know it. Nor did any of the tribunal's other
   members. "How can I respond to this?" the detainee cried before being
   taken back to his cell to continue his detention, perhaps for the rest
   of his life.

   This Kafkaesque story was related this summer by Arlen Specter, the
   ranking Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, in support of a
   bill he and Patrick Leahy, the committee's Democratic chairman, were
   co-sponsoring to restore habeas corpus rights to Guantánamo's
   detainees. Most have been held for nearly six years without charge,
   without access to a lawyer or any indication of when, if ever, they
   might be released. The Pentagon has said they could be held for the
   duration of the (open-ended) "global war on terror".

   Guantánamo has become a byword for the Bush administration's gung-ho
   reaction to the terror attacks of September 2001. In Britain, too, the
   government has sought new powers to tackle Islamist terrorism, even if
   these seemed to offend ancient liberties. But the story is not over
   yet. It could turn into a tale not of liberties being frayed, but of
   democracy's underlying strength. For, in both America and Britain, the
   doctrine of the balance of powers has passed a test. The executive
   branch made a grab for more authority; but courts and legislators have
   tried hard to push back.

   Freedom from arbitrary arrest and detention, coupled with the right to
   challenge it in an independent court--known as habeas corpus in
   common-law countries like Britain and America--are among the civilised
   world's most sacred and ancient liberties, going back to medieval
   times. But these days, there is more talk of pre-emption and
   "preventive detention", even in democracies. "You can't allow somebody
   to commit the crime before you detain them," said Condoleezza Rice,
   the secretary of state, when asked about America's secret "renditions"
   programme for suspected terrorists.

   What the public safety requires

   Under the American constitution, habeas corpus may not be suspended
   except when "in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may
   require it". And only very rarely has it been suspended. Abraham
   Lincoln did so during the civil war, but was rebuked by the courts.
   And the internment of 120,000 people of Japanese descent, two-thirds
   of them American citizens, in the second world war, was lawful but is
   now viewed as a shameful misdeed.

   Britain likewise suspended habeas corpus in the second world war to
   allow it to detain around 1,000 suspected fascists. All were released
   after three years. During the "troubles" in Northern Ireland in the
   early 1970s, nearly 2,000 suspected extremists were interned. But the
   practice was scrapped in 1975, as it was clearly fuelling support for
   terrorism--just as Guantánamo is doing now.

   George Bush chose the American naval base in Cuba as the detention
   centre for those picked up in his war on terror because officials
   believed--falsely as it turned out--Guantánamo was beyond the reach of
   domestic and international law. If the detainees had been held on
   American soil, they could have claimed the same rights as ordinary
   American citizens, including a right to due process, to apply for
   asylum and to sue the American government for any alleged wrongs.

   From the outset, the 775 or so men and boys (some as young as 13) sent
   by Mr Bush to Guantánamo were branded as guilty. Donald Rumsfeld, the
   former defence secretary, described them as "hard-core, well-trained
   terrorists" who, if released, would simply "return to the fight and
   continue to kill innocent men, women and children". The Pentagon says
   that all were "caught in the battlefield". But many were given to the
   Americans by Afghan bounty-seekers; others were seized as far away as
   Bosnia and Zambia.

   Mr Bush claims that, under international law, parties to an armed
   conflict may hold enemy combatants "for the duration of active
   hostilities". This is correct. Nor is "unlawful enemy combatant" a
   term he invented. In the Geneva Conventions, it describes a foe who is
   not a member of official armed forces or an organised resistance
   movement, does not carry arms openly, wears no uniform or other
   distinctive sign, and refuses to heed the laws of war. As such, he
   fails to qualify for the rights of a prisoner of war. But, contrary to
   what the administration first claimed, he is entitled to some
   protections, including humane treatment and, if charged, to a fair
   trial by a "regularly constituted court".

   But is America's war on terror a real war in the legal sense? If not,
   then the detainees should be treated as ordinary criminal suspects.
   This is the path that most European countries have chosen. Even if it
   could be deemed a real war, it is clearly unlike an ordinary state
   conflict: it has neither a definable end nor even an identifiable
   enemy with whom to sue for peace. It could last for decades.

   Meanwhile, dozens, perhaps hundreds, of detainees are apparently to be
   left to rot in their cages--if not in Guantánamo, which Mr Bush says
   he wants to close--then somewhere else. America has also engaged in
   so-called "extraordinary rendition"--the abduction of suspected
   terrorists to face not justice, but harsh interrogation, perhaps
   torture, in a third country. Up to 100 nameless "high-value" suspects
   are believed to have been seized by CIA agents and then transferred to
   secret jails, some never to resurface. Around 15 have recently been
   transferred to Guantánamo, where they may or may not face trial. But
   most of the 330-odd detainees remaining at the camp may never be
   charged or tried. The Pentagon says it hopes eventually to put up to
   80 detainees on trial for war crimes by special military commissions.
   Even if acquitted, they may still be held as enemy combatants for the
   rest of the "war".

   In Britain, all renditions have been outlawed since a Court of Appeal
   ruling in 1999 overturned the conviction of an Irish Republican, Peter
   Mullen, who had been spirited back to Britain from Zimbabwe. His
   abduction was described by the court as a "blatant and extremely
   serious failure to adhere to the rule of law".

   Britain has eroded liberties in other ways. Immediately after the
   September 11th attacks, the government brought in a law allowing it to
   hold indefinitely and without charge any foreigner deemed a national
   security risk--on the simple say-so of the home secretary. To do this,
   it had to opt out of parts of the European Convention on Human Rights,
   as is permitted "in time of war or other public emergency threatening
   the life of the nation". None of the 45 other signatories has deemed
   such a step necessary.

   Belmarsh prison in London, where most terror suspects were held, was
   dubbed "Britain's Guantánamo"--a bit unfairly. Britain never claimed
   to be in the midst of a war or to be holding "unlawful enemy
   combatants" with no legal rights. Its foreign detainees, totalling no
   more than 18, always had access to a lawyer and could challenge their
   detention before an independent tribunal, though they were not allowed
   to see classified evidence against them. The government said they were
   not being held indefinitely, just awaiting deportation. But as they
   could not be sent to their own countries (because they might be
   tortured), and no other state wanted them, the effect was the same.

   The law lords say no

   In December 2004 the House of Lords, Britain's highest court, judged
   this system to be incompatible with the European Convention. For Lord
   Scott, one of the law lords involved, indefinite detention on
   undisclosed grounds was "the stuff of nightmares", reminiscent of a
   Stalinist regime. The law was duly scrapped. But it was replaced by
   new powers allowing the home secretary (not a judge) to impose an
   indefinitely renewable "control order"--including electronic tagging,
   a ban on phone and internet use, and strict curfews amounting at times
   to virtual house arrest--on any suspected terrorist, British or
   foreign.

   The new system seems as riddled with problems as the old, and almost
   as unfair. In its latest report on control orders, in September, the
   Home Office said three of the 14 people subject to the regime had
   absconded. Several people have had their orders quashed by judges who
   again found the measures incompatible with the European Convention.
   The government has appealed to the House of Lords, which is expected
   to pronounce later this month.

   In the final months of Tony Blair's government, ministers said they
   were prepared to "take the nuclear option" and opt out of the
   convention again if the law lords' ruling went against them. That
   threat has not been repeated by the new prime minister, Gordon Brown.
   But he may yet try similar moves. He has already announced plans for a
   new anti-terrorist law--Britain's fifth since 2000. Among his
   proposals is an extension of the maximum time a suspected terrorist
   can be held without charge from 28 days, already the longest in the
   West, to 56 days. Most democracies allow no more than three days.
   France permits four; Greece six.

   But no leader of a Western democracy has obtained a completely free
   hand in detaining people. America has seen a tug of war between the
   government and the courts, with many rounds. In June 2004, the Supreme
   Court ruled that habeas corpus remained available to everyone detained
   on American soil, unless explicitly suspended. The case involved Yaser
   Esam Hamdi, an American citizen being held as an unlawful enemy
   combatant on a naval brig in Virginia. Two years later, in a case
   involving a Guantánamo detainee, Salim Hamdan, the Supreme Court said
   the basic protections afforded to all wartime detainees under the
   Geneva Conventions applied to everyone, even to unlawful enemy
   combatants outside America.

   The court also ruled that Mr Bush had exceeded his authority in
   setting up, without congressional approval, special military
   commissions to try some of the Guantánamo detainees. In response, the
   president pushed through the 2006 Military Commissions Act giving him
   just such authority. That law also stripped Guantánamo detainees of
   any vestige of habeas corpus rights, with retroactive effect. This
   seemed to dash the hopes of hundreds of Guantánamo detainees with
   challenges pending before American civilian courts. In April, that
   view appeared to be confirmed when the Supreme Court turned down,
   without comment, a habeas corpus petition from the above-mentioned Mr
   Hamdan. But in June it relented, agreeing to hear an almost identical
   case from another Guantánamo detainee. Many hope the Supreme Court
   will seize this opportunity to give a view on whether Mr Bush's "war
   on terror" is a real war.

   The legislators strike back

   Congress, too, is beginning to show its teeth, particularly now it is
   under Democratic control. Although Senator Specter's bipartisan bill
   to restore habeas corpus rights to Guantánamo detainees fell to a
   Republican filibuster on September 19th, it got the support of 56
   senators, including four Republicans. Other bills pending before
   Congress seek the total closure of Guantánamo with the transfer of the
   detainees either to their home countries, if they do not present too
   big a threat and if those countries are willing to take them; or to a
   military prison in America.

   In Britain, too, Parliament has baulked at some of the government's
   demands. In 2005, when Mr Blair sought to push through a bill raising
   the time a suspected terrorist could be detained from 14 to 90 days,
   his backbenchers revolted, eventually settling on the compromise of 28
   days, with regular judicial oversight. Some British officials have
   been looking with envy at civil-law countries like France, where the
   criminal-justice system allows detention for months, even years, after
   a suspect has been formally "placed under investigation", but not yet
   charged. Police can also continue to interrogate suspects during that
   time.

   But most legal commentators believe that if the French model were
   copied in this area, an unbearable blow would be dealt to England's
   common-law system. And despite the fears of civil libertarians, there
   are still judges and legislators who think that system worth
   preserving.


   In a propaganda coup for "re-educators" across the Muslim world, a
   jailed ideologue of violence changes his mind

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                              Zawahiri: unfazed by faxes 

   WHEN an eloquent advocate of terrorist violence deploys his rhetorical
   powers and scriptural knowledge in the opposite cause, that is a
   triumph for the authorities--even if the "repentant" extremist is in
   prison, and has presumably been under strong pressure, to put it
   mildly, to alter his thinking.

   That has just happened in Egypt--a country whose theological debates,
   whether in jails, Friday sermons or over the internet, matter a lot,
   and can reverberate across the Muslim world. One of the main
   ideologues of the Islamic Jihad movement--Sayed al-Shareef, better
   known as Doctor Fadl--has produced an elaborate recantation of his
   extremist views. His revised opinions have been serialised in several
   newspapers.

   For Egyptians, this is a new twist in a semi-public argument that has
   been going on since the massacre of 58 tourists in Luxor in 1997. That
   atrocity prompted a wave of questioning within jihadist ranks. Over
   the next few years, imprisoned leaders of the Jamaa Islamiya, the
   Egyptian group to which the Luxor killers claimed allegiance,
   published a series of works condemning this act, deploring the group's
   previous use of violence, and redefining jihad in more peaceful terms.

   Those recantations are often cited as a reason for a fall-off in
   Islamist terrorism inside Egypt. But leaders of Islamic Jihad--the
   other ultra-militant group in Egypt--rejected the new moderate line.
   Its overseas branch, led by Ayman al-Zawahiri, forged an alliance with
   Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda. Global jihadism still thrived, and it
   returned to Egypt with attacks on beach resorts in Sinai in 2004 and
   2005.

   So the latest reversal by a prominent member of Islamic Jihad is a
   dramatic event--even if it prompted Mr Zawahiri to ask caustically
   whether Egyptian jail cells now had fax machines, and whether they ran
   on the same electricity source as the instruments of torture.

   Mr al-Shareef's credentials as an ideologue are "second to none," says
   Stephen Ulph, a terrorism-watcher at the Jamestown Foundation, a
   think-tank. In recent years, Mr al-Shareef had defended the legitimacy
   of violence against regimes that purported to be Muslim but were not
   zealous enough to deserve the name. Now he has reversed that stance,
   warning against branding fellow-Muslims as infidels.

   As a theological statement, the new line from Mr al-Shareef dovetails
   with the positions developed by establishment scholars in several
   other Arab states where deradicalisation programmes are in progress.
   Some governments claim these have been very successful. Saudi Arabia
   says that out of perhaps 3,000 terrorist suspects and sympathisers
   arrested since 2003, some two-thirds have agreed to re-education
   programmes. Of these, 700 have renounced former beliefs and been
   released. Beyond religious reindoctrination, the Saudi effort also
   includes psychological counselling and, perhaps crucially, direct
   financial and social support to help woo radicals back to "civilian"
   life.

   Yemen claims to have rehabilitated hundreds of former radicals, and
   points to the diminution of terrorist attacks as one result. Egypt has
   reduced its prison population of jihadist suspects from an estimated
   20,000 in the late 1990s to below 5,000 today.

   Yet some people doubt the effectiveness of either re-education or
   high-profile penitence in reducing the jihadist urge. One important
   question is whether jihadist violence is primarily a product of
   religious ideology, or of geopolitical grievance. The feeling that
   Islam is "under threat" in many parts of the world is arguably a
   politically motivated cry of victimhood rather than a statement about
   the meaning of sacred texts.

   Even the al-Shareef recantation, like those of the Jamaa Islamiya,
   seems to accept the legitimacy in principle of violent jihad in
   defence of the faith. Once you accept that proposition, it can rapidly
   lead to a hard argument--more political than theological--over who is
   on the attack, and who is on the defensive, in the relationship
   between Islam and the rest of the world.


   Protesters and governments are mastering the tricks of the mobile
   trade 

   BACK in September, protesters from many parts of the United States
   poured into the small town of Jena, Louisiana, to express their anger
   over the over-zealous prosecution (as they saw it) of six young
   African-Americans on charges of assault. Mobile-phone text messages
   played an important role in pulling in the crowd.

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP

                   Summoned by cells: the Louisiana march

   But for pioneers of mobile telephony and texts as tools of protest and
   dissent, simply summoning people to demonstrations--a technique first
   deployed in the Philippines as long ago as 2001--is old hat. The
   search is on for ever more creative ways to use this ubiquitous
   device.

   At a recent conference in São Paulo on "mobile activism"--a term that
   embraces humanitarian work as well as protest--there was much talk
   about how to "go beyond text" when using mobile phones. And it became
   clear that exuberant practice was galloping ahead of theory. One
   recent craze has been the use of political ringtones. Once again,
   Filipinos are in the vanguard. Since 2005 that country's best-known
   tone, especially among youngsters exasperated by corruption, has been
   "Hello Garci"--a snatch of taped conversation in which President
   Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo seems to be chatting with Virgilio Garcillano,
   her election organiser, ahead of the 2004 poll that confirmed her in
   office. In Hispanic countries, meanwhile, the latest fashion is a
   royal voice saying "Why don't you shut up?"--the recent outburst of
   Spain's King Juan Carlos to President Hugo Chávez of Venezuela at a
   summit in Santiago, Chile.

   Mobiles are also being used in more sophisticated ways, to capture and
   disseminate images that were never supposed to see the light of day.
   Witness, a non-governmental organisation that aims to record and
   denounce human-rights abuses, is one pioneer. Instead of merely
   posting verbal reports, it invites visitors to its [3]website to the
   "Hub"--a collection of harrowing video clips, often uploaded from
   mobiles, which depict cruelty in action. On the "Egypt" country page,
   there are grainy images showing torture in a prison.

   For now at least, expense and technological problems make it hard to
   organise any international mobile-based protest. The lack of full
   interoperability between mobile systems means that borders are still
   difficult to cross. But efforts are under way to get round that
   problem. For example, FrontlineSMS, a laptop-based (and thus portable)
   technology has been designed for use almost anywhere. Early this year
   it was deployed in the monitoring of elections in Nigeria. Voters
   texted complaints to a computer where they could be processed and
   cross-checked by monitors from international bodies such as the
   European Union.

   More recently FrontlineSMS was used in Pakistan to get round curbs on
   information flowing in and out of the country. Both there and in
   Myanmar (Burma) recent disturbances have produced some interesting
   insights into the cat-and-mouse games of protesters and political
   masters.

   In Pakistan the equipment used by local authorities was too cheap to
   block the flow of text messages. This helped Pakistani protesters to
   stay informed about sympathetic rallies taking place in America and
   Britain--and to give the outside world a glimpse of ordinary people's
   reactions to the state of emergency.

   During the recent protests in Myanmar, the authorities temporarily
   suspended text messaging altogether. That did not stop activists from
   using expensive satellite phones, which are harder to shut down. The
   political, and above all, economic cost of blocking text messages was
   relatively low in Myanmar, because not many people use mobiles. But in
   many other developing countries, shutting mobile systems would be
   economically disastrous and politically costly, because so many small
   businesses depend on them.

   In some places, like Belarus, the authorities have refined the art of
   blocking mobile coverage in specific places--such as protest venues.
   They have also turned text messages to their own uses: by using the
   state-owned network to spread warnings that a rally is likely to end
   in bloodshed.

   For hard-pressed activists in search of new techniques, help may come
   from an unlikely quarter. Google, the internet giant, has offered $10m
   for the most innovative new application for mobile phones. The offer
   extends to ideas that bring humanitarian benefits or contribute to
   economic development. Mobile activists have never lacked imagination,
   and many of them are already hard at work, thinking of clever new uses
   for those little devices--mostly rather crude, five-year-old
   models--that have become part of daily life in the poorest parts of
   the world.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   A green jamboree in Indonesia will not achieve anything tangible, but
   it matters

   IF SIZE is a measure of importance, the meeting of the United Nations
   Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) that starts in Bali on
   December 3rd is a big deal. Somewhere between 15,000 and 20,000
   politicians, officials, activists and journalists are expected to
   attend, stretching the Indonesian island's resources to
   breaking-point. "It's a nightmare for those of us who are actually
   working on the agenda," says an official who is attending. "We won't
   be able to get internet access or food." The recent floods in parts of
   Indonesia (shown above) may help concentrate minds.

   The numbers of people pouring into Bali next week do at least
   demonstrate that the political profile of climate change has risen
   over the past year. Nobody whose job touches on global warming can
   afford to be absent. And the issue that the meeting is primarily
   about--how the world should try to mitigate climate change when the
   Kyoto protocol runs out in 2012--is crucial.

   The omens, too, are good. Those who support a global agreement along
   the lines of Kyoto, based on targets for cutting greenhouse-gas
   emissions, got a boost from the results of the Australian elections.
   Kevin Rudd, the country's new prime minister, has promised to reverse
   his predecessor's policy and ratify Kyoto.

   But expectations for Bali are low, and are being managed downwards
   before the meeting. "Disappointment may come in a variety of different
   guises," says an official. Those, like the EU and the NGOs, who want a
   global deal are not even looking for a road map for the post-2012 era.
   They will be happy if they manage to stop America, OPEC or the
   developing countries creating serious roadblocks.

   It is not surprising that Bali is unlikely to achieve anything
   tangible, for it is aimed at the hardest part of climate-change
   mitigation--getting an international agreement which all the big
   emitters ratify. That won't happen until America adopts serious
   domestic emissions-control measures.

   But encouragement from the international front would ease the passage
   of such measures considerably. So what happens at Bali matters, though
   the declaration that comes out of it will be encrypted in diplomatic
   language, and the difference between success and failure will be
   imperceptible to the untrained eye.

   Experienced code-breakers will be looking, essentially, for three
   things by which to judge whether Bali has been a success or a failure.
   The first is some sort of long-term commitment by all 192 signatories
   of the UNFCCC to deal with the problem, involving some sort of goal,
   such as temperature, emissions cuts or atmospheric carbon
   concentrations. The second is further commitments by developing
   countries to cut their emissions. The EU already committed itself to
   cuts of 20% below 1990 levels by 2020 at its spring conference earlier
   this year; and since the current American administration continues to
   oppose binding targets, such promises will have to come from other
   rich countries, such as Australia or Japan.

   The third area concerns developing countries. They are not going to
   commit themselves to cuts. But activists hope that China and
   India--the nations everybody is watching--may throw America a bone. If
   the big developing countries agree to look into cutting emissions from
   particular sectors--an idea that the Bush administration has
   pushed--rather than from their economies as a whole, America will be
   likelier to commit itself to emissions controls. After all, it was the
   developing world's refusal to countenance cuts that led America to
   turn its back on Kyoto in the first place.

   This is all familiar territory to climate-change aficionados. But
   there is one area in which the Bali meeting may break new ground:
   deforestation.

   The Kyoto protocol established a mechanism (see [3]article) under
   which developing countries that cut their industrial emissions can
   sell those reductions to rich countries. But developing countries have
   no incentive to stop cutting down their forests, and tropical
   deforestation accounts for around 20% of total annual greenhouse-gas
   emissions. So a group of heavily-forested countries have been lobbying
   to get paid for not cutting down their green canopies.

   This initiative has met plenty of opposition, and not just from the
   many who point out that designing a scheme to pay people not to do
   something is tricky. Brazil, home of the world's largest expanse of
   tropical forest, has also been wary of the idea. It was instrumental
   in designing the Clean Development Mechanism, which it is doing very
   nicely out of, and it fears that flooding the market for carbon
   credits with new supply from tropical forests would depress the price
   and destroy the mechanism. It is also uncomfortable about the
   implication in an "avoided deforestation" programme that its forests
   are the whole world's property.

   But as Brazil has come to take the issues of both climate change and
   deforestation more seriously, so its opposition to such a programme
   has moderated. That, and the world's realisation that without
   addressing deforestation, mitigating climate change will be
   exceedingly difficult, has brought forests to the fore.

   Even on deforestation, though, there will not be a concrete agreement.
   The best that can be expected is--to use UN parlance--a commitment to
   look into creating incentives to discourage countries from chopping
   down their tropical forests. International diplomacy is a horribly
   slow business; and some such statement is probably a necessary first
   step towards, eventually, packing away the chainsaws.


   A good graphic can tell a story, bring a lump to the throat, even
   change policies. Here are three of history's best

   IT WAS at a dinner party in 1856 that Florence Nightingale met William
   Farr. The Lady of the Lamp was already famous for nursing British
   soldiers wounded in the Crimea; Farr, the Compiler of Abstracts in the
   General Registry Office, was widely recognised as an innovative
   statistician. Both cared deeply about improving the world through
   sanitation; both understood the importance of meticulous records in
   providing the evidence needed to bring about change.

                                                             Graphic News

                                Graphic News

   Farr was the first to compile "mortality tables", listing causes of
   death in the general population; Nightingale compared his numbers with
   her own on the deaths of soldiers to great effect. By showing that
   even in peacetime a soldier faced twice the risk of dying in a given
   year as a civilian, she campaigned successfully for better conditions
   in barracks. The pair were instrumental in setting up a royal
   commission of inquiry into sanitary conditions during the Crimean war.

   Although remembered as the mother of modern nursing, Nightingale was
   an accomplished statistician too. She was particularly innovative in
   presenting data visually. The example above, of a type now known as
   "Nightingale's Rose" or "Nightingale's Coxcomb", comes from her
   monograph, "Notes on matters affecting the health, efficiency and
   hospital administration of the British army" published in 1858. In the
   same year she became the first female fellow of the Statistical
   Society of London (now Royal Statistical Society).

   The chart displays the causes of the deaths of soldiers during the
   Crimean war, divided into three categories: "Preventible or Mitigable
   Zymotic Diseases" (infectious diseases, including cholera and
   dysentery, coloured in blue), "wounds" (red) and "all other causes"
   (black). As with today's pie charts, the area of each wedge is
   proportional to the figure it stands for, but it is the radius of each
   slice (the distance from the common centre to the outer edge) rather
   than the angle that is altered to achieve this. Her principal
   message--that even during periods of heavy fighting, such as November
   1854, far more soldiers died from infection than from wounds--can be
   seen at a glance. She sent the chart to the War Office; and it is a
   fair assumption that it contributed to the improvements in military
   hospitals that she brought about.

   Nightingale's chart is a beautiful and persuasive call to action, but
   it is not perfect. The red, black and blue wedges are all measured
   from the centre, so some areas mask parts of others. The numbers of
   deaths from the various causes are not stated--although, to be fair,
   it was their relative size that Nightingale wished to show.

                                                             Graphic News

                                Graphic News

   The chart to the left also tells the story of a war: Napoleon's
   Russian campaign of 1812. It was drawn half a century afterwards by
   Charles Joseph Minard, a French civil engineer who worked on dams,
   canals and bridges. He was 80 years old and long retired when, in
   1861, he called on the innovative techniques he had invented for the
   purpose of displaying flows of people, in order to tell the tragic
   tale in a single image. Edward Tufte, whose book, "The Visual Display
   of Quantitative Information" is a bible to statisticians, calls it
   "the best statistical graphic ever drawn".

   Minard's chart shows six types of information: geography, time,
   temperature, the course and direction of the army's movement, and the
   number of troops remaining. The widths of the gold (outward) and black
   (returning) paths represent the size of the force, one millimetre to
   10,000 men. Geographical features and major battles are marked and
   named, and plummeting temperatures on the return journey are shown
   along the bottom.

   The chart tells the dreadful story with painful clarity: in 1812, the
   Grand Army set out from Poland with a force of 422,000; only 100,000
   reached Moscow; and only 10,000 returned. The detail and
   understatement with which such horrifying loss is represented combine
   to bring a lump to the throat. As men tried, and mostly failed, to
   cross the Bérézina river under heavy attack, the width of the black
   line halves: another 20,000 or so gone. The French now use the
   expression "C'est la Bérézina" to describe a total disaster.

   In 1871, the year after Minard died, his obituarist cited particularly
   his graphical innovations: "For the dry and complicated columns of
   statistical data, of which the analysis and the discussion always
   require a great sustained mental effort, he had substituted images
   mathematically proportioned, that the first glance takes in and knows
   without fatigue, and which manifest immediately the natural
   consequences or the comparisons unforeseen." The chart shown here is
   singled out for special mention: it "inspires bitter reflections on
   the cost to humanity of the madnesses of conquerors and the merciless
   thirst of military glory".

                                                             Graphic News

                                Graphic News

   The chart to the left is the earliest of our three. It was published
   in 1821 by William Playfair, a Scottish engineer, political economist
   and scoundrel: he was convicted of libel in England and swindling in
   France. Alongside these many and varied skills he was also an engraver
   (he produced some of James Watt's engineering drawings), which
   explains this image's handsomeness, with its delicate shading and
   ornate attribution.

   Playfair liked controversial topics. He drew a chart comparing tax
   levels in various countries in order to show that Britain's was too
   high. He was the first to show imports and exports on one chart,
   shading the area between the two to indicate the balance of trade and
   explaining that the intersection of the lines showed a shift in favour
   of one country or the other.

   This chart, his most famous, shows the "weekly wages of a good
   mechanic" and the "price of a quarter of wheat", with the reigns of
   monarchs displayed along the top. It is a little difficult to see the
   point Playfair wished to make: "that never at any former period was
   wheat so cheap, in proportion to mechanical labour as it is at the
   present time". Presumably he was not familiar with the idea of
   combining two variables--prices and wages--to make a
   third--affordability. Still, he should not be overly criticised for
   this. For a start, his conclusion was correct. Statisticians have used
   his data to plot wages divided by prices (showing how much wheat a
   week's wages would buy) against time, and the point becomes clear--as,
   incidentally, does a more subtle one: the increase in buying power was
   slowing down.

   And Playfair was already making a leap of abstraction that few of his
   contemporaries could follow. Using the horizontal and vertical axes to
   represent time and money was such a novelty that he had to explain it
   painstakingly in accompanying text. "This method has struck several
   persons as being fallacious", he wrote, "because geometrical
   measurement has not any relation to money or to time; yet here it is
   made to represent both."

   He was the first in a series of economists, statisticians and social
   reformers who wanted to use data not only to inform but also to
   persuade and even campaign--and who understood that when the eye
   comprehends, the heart often follows. Nightingale hoped her charts
   would liven up her publications; the queen, she thought, might look at
   the pictures, even if she did not read the words.

   Not everyone thought it was right to include such fripperies in a
   sober publication. "We do not want impressions, we want facts," Farr
   wrote to her in 1861. "You complain that your report would be dry. The
   dryer the better. Statistics should be the dryest of all reading."
   Fortunately, she ignored him.


   A report on how not to solve disputes

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

                 Clarkson: learning to avoid disintegration


   DID you ever hear about an Indian economist, a Ghanaian-American
   philosopher, a Chinese-Canadian stateswoman and a Northern Irish
   politician who tried to work out why so many groups of people were
   fighting each other and what could be done about it?

   Along with seven other public figures, the above
   luminaries--respectively Amartya Sen, Kwame Anthony Appiah, Adrienne
   Clarkson and (Lord) John Alderdice--have spent two years preparing a
   report[4]*; their formal remit was to consider "respect and
   understanding" as a way to stem conflict. The recipient of their
   collective wisdom will be the (formerly British) Commonwealth, whose
   heads of government, representing about 1.8 billion people, gather in
   Uganda later this month.

   At first glance, the fruits of this huge array of brain power look
   rather modest: a slim volume which, when opened randomly, seems packed
   with familiar political correctness and concessions to the idea of
   victimhood. People feel aggrieved because they are poor, powerless or
   else they belong to groups (ethnic, religious, economic) which are not
   sufficiently respected, and one grievance feeds another.

   But brevity is no sin--far from it--and amidst all this fluffy stuff
   are to be found some nuggets of very tough-minded thinking about the
   dangers of putting people into neat boxes--and the cynical way in
   which ethnic or tribal warlords or nationalist and religious zealots
   always try to shoehorn people into simple, unchanging categories
   because it suits their purposes and keeps conflict on the boil.

   Perhaps that much is obvious to anyone who has observed a peaceful
   society slide into conflict, or simply struggle to avoid
   disintegration on linguistic lines, as Canada has done. What is less
   obvious is that people who are trying to put an end to conflict--be
   they soldiers or nice peace-brokers--often fall into the same trap as
   the belligerents, by assuming that people naturally divide into simple
   categories.

   Instead of addressing, say, Protestants and Catholics and urging each
   "side" to think better of the other, it may be wiser to remind them
   that they have lots of other identities too: as parents, sports
   enthusiasts, believers in a political or economic ideology, music fans
   or whatever.

   As Mr Appiah, a novelist and New Yorker who descends from famous
   British and Ghanaian politicians, puts it: "When a cab driver asks
   where I am from, what he really wants to know is why I am
   brown-skinned, so I tell him I grew up in Ghana....But when I go to a
   philosophy conference, what matters is which school of philosophers I
   belong to."

   From these personal musings, Mr Appiah derives some quite stern
   conclusions about the way Western societies have responded to
   terrorists acting in the name of Islam. After the terrorist bombs in
   London of July 2005, he thinks, Tony Blair shouldn't have appealed for
   moderation among "British Muslims"; he should have addressed British
   citizens as a whole.

   Mr Sen, who was born in West Bengal in 1933, says he has been
   depressed by the way "Bangladeshi Muslim" identity has superseded all
   others--in contrast with 30 years ago when (in the early days of
   Bangladeshi independence) people of all religious backgrounds felt a
   Bengali solidarity that cut across religious affiliation.

   The existence of lots of competing affiliations which pull people in
   different ways is the best hope of silencing gloomy talk of a "clash
   of civilisations" (with religion, and Islam in particular, often seen
   as the defining characteristic for giant global blocks). Such thinking
   is "deeply flawed on a conceptual level and deeply divisive in
   practice," the report says.

   As everybody knows deep down, the authors suggest, people belong to
   lots of categories (family, language, personal interests, political
   ideology) and spend their time shifting between them--unless some
   conflict arises in which a detail of family history becomes a matter
   of life and death.

   At a minimum, say these authors, the authorities who are trying to
   keep inter-communal peace should not empower people whose authority
   depends on keeping divisions sharp. "It could be argued that, in
   Britain and America, attempts at engaging against terrorism...have
   had, at times, a perverse effect of magnifying the voice of extreme
   Islamists...faith-based approaches make it more difficult for
   politically secular Muslims to speak out against terrorism and
   violence," the report argues. If anybody reads it carefully, it will
   stir some interesting arguments when those Commonwealth leaders
   gather.
   [gray.gif]

   *[5]Civil Paths to Peace: Report of the Commonwealth Commission on
   Respect and Understanding


                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   First admitted to the Group of Eight as a gesture of goodwill and
   support for reform, Russia is concentrating its partners' minds--with
   offers and threats

   WHEN he met Vladimir Putin in 2001, George Bush said he had looked the
   Russian president in the eye and got a "sense of his soul" as a
   trustworthy man. Six years later, as the two leaders meet at the G8
   summit in Germany, Westerners studying Mr Putin's inner self will more
   likely see a tough strategic adversary.

   As Russia heads towards a new form of authoritarianism, Mr Putin's
   anti-Western rhetoric has grown ever more harsh and reminiscent of the
   cold war. This year has seen a crescendo of attacks. It started with
   Mr Putin's accusation in February that America's "unconstrained
   hyper-use of force" threatened the world; intensified in May with an
   implied comparison of America with Nazi Germany; and climaxed this
   month with a threat to re-target Russia's nuclear missiles on Europe.

   If you believe him, Mr Putin's rage reflects his fear that the nuclear
   balance is being upset by Mr Bush's plan to put a limited missile
   defence system on Czech and Polish soil. "It is clear that if part of
   the US nuclear capability turns up in Europe...then we are forced to
   take corresponding steps in response," Mr Putin told a group of
   foreign journalists ahead of the summit. "What will those steps be?
   Naturally, we will have to have new targets in Europe."

   So the era of nuclear mutual assured destruction (or MAD, the cold-war
   stability derived from the knowledge that if one side fired its
   rockets, the other could launch a devastating counter-attack), which
   supposedly ended when the red flag came down, could return. A Kremlin
   spokesman called his leader's comments a "hypothetical answer to a
   hypothetical question". But they were no slip of the tongue; similar
   remarks had been made earlier by a Russian general. Mr Putin, it
   seems, wants to make Western states see the depth of his anger.

   America says the missile defence system is not aimed at Russia; it is
   designed to ward off Iranian missiles that may, one day, carry nuclear
   weapons. But for Mr Putin, the anti-missile shield is just a bid to
   revive the old Star Wars programme against the Kremlin--if not now,
   then in the future. Mr Putin has never liked America's missile
   defence, but seemed to acquiesce when Mr Bush quit the Anti-Ballistic
   Missile (ABM) treaty in 2002. America and Russia at the time made an
   agreement to reduce nuclear warheads to 1,700-2,200 each.

   Several things have happened since those friendlier days. America has
   been weakened by the war in Iraq. Russia has grown richer on oil, and
   Mr Putin angrier over the expansion of NATO to his borders and
   especially the pro-Western "orange revolution" in Ukraine in 2004.

   America's decision to build even limited missile-defence facilities in
   two ex-Warsaw Pact countries was, to him, an intolerable provocation,
   feeding a sense of encirclement. A week ago, Russia test-fired what it
   said was a new intercontinental ballistic missile with multiple
   warheads, able to counteract any missile shield. Mr Putin blamed
   America for starting a new arms race. Recently he has rattled other
   pillars of the post-cold-war order. In February a Russian general said
   his country could quit the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF)
   treaty; in April Mr Putin threatened to freeze participation in the
   pact on Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE).

   The Kremlin has given mixed signals about how far it will seek to
   nullify these accords, and how much these moves have been caused by
   the missile-defence row. Mr Putin has opposed the missile defences
   being proposed for Europe by saying Iran's rockets are no imminent
   threat to NATO. But on June 7th he surprised the Americans by
   proposing Azerbaijan as an alternative site--where the United States
   and Russia could jointly erect a missile shield, serving both European
   and Russian needs.

   Russia has acted up in one forum after another--NATO, the European
   Union and the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe--so
   far with little result. It has called an emergency meeting of parties
   to the CFE treaty in Vienna next week. Mr Putin berates NATO for not
   ratifying an amended (1999) text of the CFE pact. (NATO cites Russia's
   failure to keep its pledge to withdraw forces from Georgia and
   Moldova; Russian troops remain in both countries, as "peacekeepers"
   which in reality prop up pro-Kremlin statelets.)

   Western replies to Mr Putin's outbursts have so far been muted. Mr
   Bush insists the missile-defence plan is open to Russian
   participation. "Russia is not an enemy," he said this week, playing
   down Mr Putin's nuclear threats. He has sent a succession of senior
   officials to Moscow to mollify Russia, with little success. He has
   also issued an unprecedented invitation to his "friend" Vladimir to
   meet him at his parents' home in Maine on July 1st.

   Some Americans feel the worsening mood reflects Western mistakes too.
   "When Russia tried to co-operate, it got ignored, and now when it
   behaves badly it gets attention," argues Toby Gati, an ex-White House
   adviser. Mr Putin may be genuinely aggrieved that America has taken
   his past co-operation for granted--for instance in the war against
   terror. He may also reckon that by hitting the West hard on missile
   defence, he may exacerbate divisions in the Western camp.

   The tone of Mr Putin's latest comments also reflects a mood of
   mounting tension after the request by Britain's Crown Prosecution
   Service for the extradition of a former KGB officer, Andrei Lugovoi.
   Britain wants to try him for the murder by radioactive poisoning of an
   exiled ex-secret policeman, Alexander Litvinenko, in London. Mr Putin
   seemed more irked by what he called the "foolish" extradition bid than
   by the substance of the case. He says it is constitutionally all but
   impossible for him to accept the request--and apparently feels pushed
   into a corner. To extradite Mr Lugovoi or try him at home would be
   kowtowing to the West (and betraying a KGB ex-colleague); by doing
   nothing, he may seem to be protecting a murder suspect.

   The Russian leader may feel he has little to lose by antagonising the
   West. But the main effects of his cutting loose from global
   obligations may be felt not so much by the West as by opponents at
   home. Mr Putin recently made an obscure quip, saying that, apart from
   himself, there have been no "pure democrats" in the world since
   Mahatma Gandhi. Garry Kasparov, a chess champion turned opposition
   figure, begs to differ: he calls his country a "police state
   masquerading as a democracy".


   In the last of our series on civil liberties, we look at the
   difficulty of reconciling traditional freedoms of expression with the
   new demands of national security

   IN COUNTRIES at war, freedoms of the press and of speech are often
   restricted. For that reason, al-Qaeda's attacks of September 11th
   2001, by precipitating a "war on terror", also raised questions--both
   legal and moral--about the role of the media in free societies.

   Several Western governments have used national security as a
   justification for limiting certain sorts of public information and
   public speech. The press itself has been torn: sometimes it has
   refused to accept limits on its freedom of expression (as when
   newspapers worldwide published cartoons of the prophet Muhammad that
   were offensive to Muslims); sometimes it has accepted them (as when
   those newspapers apologised). Meanwhile, the media have managed to
   continue their normal work, uncovering abuses at the Guantánamo and
   Abu Ghraib prisons, for example. So what has happened to freedom of
   expression under the war on terror?

   If you take at face value the lip service that almost all countries
   pay to a free press--160 of the United Nation's 192 members have
   ratified the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
   (ICCPR)--then freedom of expression has had a tough time. In Pakistan
   this summer, lawyers and pro-democracy activists took to the streets
   to demand the reinstatement of the country's chief justice after his
   removal by General Pervez Musharraf. They succeeded. But more than 30
   journalists covering later demonstrations against the general's
   pursuit of another term as president were injured when the police used
   violence against the protestors. China, whose constitution states that
   its citizens "enjoy freedom of speech...[and] of the press", has
   announced a new crackdown on "false news". And this week marks the
   first anniversary of the murder in Moscow of Anna Politkovskaya,
   Russia's best-known investigative writer: she is one of 18 journalists
   to be killed in the country since President Vladimir Putin came to
   power in 2000.

   Shooting the messengers

   Reporters Without Borders, a lobbying organisation based in Paris,
   says that 113 journalists and other media workers were killed in 2006
   (half of them in Iraq). Another 86 have been killed and 134 imprisoned
   so far this year, along with 64 "cyberdissidents". The International
   Federation of Journalists, based in Brussels, puts the death toll
   higher, reporting "at least" 155 media workers killed last year.
   Whatever the real numbers, 2006 seems to have been the worst for many
   years, if not ever. In December 2006 the UN for the first time issued
   a statement condemning the targeting of journalists and calling for
   the prosecution of their killers.

   The rising numbers of dead and jailed does not on its own mean that
   press freedom is everywhere in decline. Many of the reporters killed
   in Iraq--more than 200 since the invasion of 2003--have been Iraqis
   working for the foreign media, murdered not so much because they were
   members of the press as because they were regarded by Iraqi insurgents
   as "spies". To some degree, the global increase in the number of
   journalists being killed, kidnapped and otherwise harassed may signify
   that more journalists are at work, and are growing bolder.

   Nonetheless, Freedom House, a conservative American think-tank,
   reckons that press freedom suffered "continued global decline" in
   2006. It reported particularly troubling trends in Asia, the former
   Soviet Union and Latin America. Attacks on the media, Freedom House
   points out, are not only bad in themselves; they are also a sign of
   worse to come, since they are almost invariably followed by assaults
   on other democratic institutions.

   In repressive countries, the arrival of the internet has often been
   greeted by citizens as a wonderful way to bypass government control,
   enabling dissidents to air their views and keep in contact with the
   outside world. For a while, this new medium did seem relatively immune
   to regulation. The rest of the world found out about the first few
   weeks of the Burmese uprising partly through internet cafés in Yangon,
   which had worked out how to disable the military junta's
   internet-blocking software. But the army soon cracked down on the
   Burmese bloggers, just as they cracked down on everything else.

   In a study of the internet in 40 countries (excluding Europe and the
   United States), OpenNet Initiative, an academic think-tank, says that
   censorship of the internet has spread from just a handful of countries
   five years ago to 26 nations. Some--notably China, Iran, Syria,
   Pakistan, Tunisia, Vietnam and Uzbekistan--are now blocking entire
   internet services such as YouTube, Skype and Google Maps.

   Of course, it is not surprising that such countries are suppressing
   freedom of expression. They need little enough excuse to do it, and
   the only connection between their censorship and the war on terror is
   that their Western friends might be more inclined than usual to
   forbear from criticism in case they offend an ally in the war. But
   none of that applies to America.

   Thanks to its constitution, and especially the first amendment, the
   United States gives greater protection to freedom of expression than
   any other country. Free expression generally trumps libel, prejudicial
   comment about pending court cases, and so-called "hate speech". Even
   so, claims Peter Osnos, senior fellow at the Century Foundation, a New
   York-based think-tank, since September 2001 the Bush administration's
   attempts "to intimidate and punish the media, or at least to
   manipulate and mislead it, represents one of the most concerted
   assaults on the first amendment since it was written."

   Under American law, government documents may be classified only to
   protect national security. Presidents have at times no doubt stretched
   the definition, but George Bush has gone further than any. Partly as a
   result of an executive order of 2003, the number of documents being
   stamped secret or classified has almost quadrupled--from 5.8m under
   Bill Clinton in 1996 to more than 20m last year, according to figures
   released by the Information Security Oversight Office (part of
   America's national archives). Peter Galison, a Harvard professor,
   reckons that "the classified universe...is certainly not smaller and
   very probably much larger than [the] unclassified one." If true, more
   is kept hidden than revealed.

   A tilt too far

   Mr Bush has always had a penchant for secrecy. In 2001 he signed an
   executive order allowing a president or vice-president to block the
   release of their papers, perhaps indefinitely, instead of within 12
   years of leaving office.

   But national security is the commonest justification for the vast
   expansion of classification. Seeking to explain his 2003 executive
   order, Mr Bush spoke of the need to strike the right balance between
   security and open government. "Our nation's progress depends on the
   free flow of information," he conceded. "Nevertheless, throughout our
   history, the national defence has required that certain information be
   maintained in confidence in order to protect our citizens, our
   democratic institutions, our homeland security and our interactions
   with foreign nations."

   For many constitutional scholars, members of Congress and most
   journalists, the administration has tilted the balance too far towards
   maintaining "certain information...in confidence". Congress has
   repeatedly been denied access to documents; newspapers have been
   threatened with prosecution for revealing "state secrets" (such as Mr
   Bush's warrantless eavesdropping programme), and journalists have been
   jailed for contempt of court after refusing to reveal their sources.

   In Britain, too, freedom of expression has been under attack. With its
   Official Secrets Act, tough libel laws and tight restrictions on
   post-charge reporting of criminal investigations and trials, Britain
   has always placed more restrictions on free speech than America. It
   has now gone further. The 2006 Terrorism Act makes it a crime to
   publish a statement that "glorifies the commission or preparation" of
   a terrorist act, "whether in the past, in the future, or generally".
   On the face of it, this might make criminal the statue of Nelson
   Mandela recently erected in Parliament Square: parts of the British
   government once regarded him as a terrorist.

   Another British law, passed in 2005, criminalises demonstrations
   within a kilometre of Parliament without police permission, which
   normally has to be obtained at least six days in advance. This has led
   to farcical moments, such as the arrest of a woman picnicking in
   Parliament Square with "PEACE" marked in icing on a cake, and of
   another for reading out the names of British soldiers killed in Iraq.

                                                                      EPA
                                                                      EPA

                                     Politkovskaya, pen cut down by sword

   At the first meeting of the UN General Assembly in London in 1946,
   delegates described freedom of expression as "the touchstone of all
   human rights". In practice, that freedom has never been totally
   unfettered, even in America. As the Supreme Court famously ruled in
   1919, falsely shouting "Fire!" in a crowded theatre is not protected
   by the first amendment. Under the European Convention on Human Rights,
   freedom of expression is subject to a wide range of possible
   restrictions, including national laws banning speech likely to incite
   or "stir up" hatred against people on the basis of race, ethnic
   origin, religion or sexual orientation. Iceland goes further,
   criminalising speech that simply ridicules or insults someone on those
   grounds. Brazil, Singapore, Serbia, New Zealand and the Australian
   state of Victoria have similar race-hate laws.

   Since 2001, these sorts of restrictions have been expanded to apply to
   Muslims. Before the attacks of that year, Britain, for example, had a
   law prohibiting the incitement of racial hatred which applied to Jews
   and Sikhs (because they were deemed by the courts to be racial as well
   as religious groups), but not to Muslims, Christians or others.
   Responding to the rise in verbal and physical attacks on Muslims after
   2001, the government sought to plug that gap, proposing a ban on the
   "reckless" use of "threatening, insulting or abusive" language against
   anyone on the ground of his faith. Free-speech critics insisted that
   some element of intent be involved, claiming that otherwise religious
   works such as the Bible or the Koran could be deemed unlawful.

   The government relented. Under the Racial and Religious Hatred Act,
   which came into force on October 1st, it is now a crime for someone to
   use threatening words or behaviour only "if he intends thereby to stir
   up religious hatred". The new law does not outlaw "expressions of
   antipathy, dislike, ridicule, insult or abuse of particular
   religions". Comedians and satirists will thus be able to continue to
   poke fun at religion without fear of prosecution. But members of the
   far-right British National Party will no longer be able to claim that
   Muslim gangs are grooming and raping British children and women,
   helping turn British society into a "multiracial hell", as Nick
   Griffin, the party's leader, is alleged to have said.

   Shutting up by choice

   Sometimes the press has decided to censor itself. In September 2005 a
   Danish newspaper published cartoons of the prophet Muhammad. After
   violent protests throughout the Muslim world, most Western papers
   decided not to repeat the publication. Some editors who chose
   otherwise were reprimanded or removed. In Yemen and Jordan, they were
   arrested and their papers shut down.

   At other times legislators have decided to curtail free speech for
   what they consider impeccable reasons. In much of mainland Europe, it
   is a crime to deny that the Holocaust took place. Last year David
   Irving, a British revisionist historian, was jailed by Austria for
   three years for this, though attempts to make Holocaust denial a crime
   throughout the European Union got nowhere this year. In Turkey, a
   string of journalists and writers have been prosecuted for the crime
   of "insulting Turkishness", though both the president and prime
   minister say they want to abolish or amend the controversial article
   301 of the penal code on which the prosecutions were based.

   Attempts to gag the press in democratic countries usually fail. In
   America, Congress is considering a bill to allow journalists (and
   bloggers) to protect their sources without fear of prosecution--save
   when national security is at stake. Thomas Jefferson had something to
   say about that. "The only security of all is in a free press," he
   wrote to Lafayette in 1823. "The force of public opinion cannot be
   resisted when permitted freely to be expressed. The agitation it
   produces must be submitted to. It is necessary--to keep the waters
   pure."


                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   The persuasive powers of reformed jihadists are being used to
   "re-educate" terrorists. This story looks at Indonesia, the next looks
   at the Middle East (see [3]article) 

   MEETING Nasir Abas at one of Indonesia's trendiest hotels, it is hard
   to imagine that this polite man in casual Western clothes was once a
   leader of Jemaah Islamiah (JI), the region's most dangerous terrorist
   group. Now his job is to persuade his former comrades to give up the
   idea of perpetrating violence against the West in the name of Islam.

   As he explains in his mild-mannered way, he uses two lines of
   argument. One is theological: he points out the verses in the Koran
   that forbid aggressive warfare, and which insist that the lives of
   non-combatants, especially women and children, must be protected. The
   other line is more strategic: to convince his listeners that not all
   Westerners are anti-Muslim, he stresses the fact that many Americans
   opposed the war in Iraq. And he challenges them: have terrorist bombs
   made people respect Islam more? Some prisoners angrily reject his
   arguments, he says--but as long as they are still prepared to listen
   to them, he thinks it worth continuing to try.

   Indonesia's anti-terrorism police, like their counterparts in many
   other countries, have set up a programme to "deradicalise" Islamist
   militants. Just as the internet now provides "courses" designed to
   persuade young Muslims that terrorist violence is legitimate--by
   arguing, for example, that killing civilians might be necessary in
   some circumstances--governments and traditional theologians are
   working hard to develop and use arguments that guide people the other
   way.

   In many countries, moderate Islamic clerics are expected to do most of
   the persuading--and they must run the risk of being viewed as
   government stooges. The Indonesian authorities have taken the risky
   step of using ex-militants, some of whom have only slightly moderated
   their views on when violence is acceptable.

   Like many of the jihadists round the world who enjoy sufficient
   "street credibility" to sway younger hearts and minds, Mr Abas won his
   spurs as a fighter in the American-backed campaign against the Soviet
   occupation of Afghanistan. While some Saudi veterans of that campaign
   began directing their energy against their homeland, Mr Abas--who was
   born in Singapore but grew up in Malaysia--returned to his own native
   region to spread the ultra-Islamist fire. He set up a JI network in
   the Philippines.

   He had moved to Jakarta by the time the group bombed a nightclub in
   Bali in 2002, killing 202 people. He insists he was not involved in
   that operation and always disapproved of attacking civilians. But as a
   leading strategist in the organisation and the brother-in-law of one
   of the main conspirators, Mukhlas, he was arrested and given a short
   jail sentence.

   The 2002 bombing, followed by others against foreign targets in Bali
   and Jakarta, forced an overhaul of Indonesia's police and intelligence
   services. As JI members were rounded up, two new police squads decided
   to see if they could get some of them to co-operate. Through
   kindnesses, such as arranging family visits, they hoped to dispel the
   jihadists' assumption that all policemen are thoghut (un-Islamic), and
   thereby to encourage them to reconsider other deeply held views. The
   next step was to get those militants who still believed in the
   rightness of the bombings to listen to those, like Mr Abas, who had
   disapproved of them all along, or other co-operating but harder-line
   militants like Ali Imron, who had become convinced that the attacks
   were wrong only more recently.

   Unlike many other Muslim countries that are experimenting with
   deradicalisation schemes--these include Egypt, Yemen, Saudi Arabia and
   Algeria--Indonesia has a relatively open political system where the
   actions of the police must face public and parliamentary scrutiny.
   There was uproar when the police handlers of the scheme were seen
   treating Mr Imron, who was directly implicated in the Bali bombings,
   to coffee at a fancy Jakarta mall in 2004. Since then he has kept a
   lower profile, staying at the capital's police headquarters. In
   another sign of Indonesia's openness, the authorities gave an
   independent think-tank, the International Crisis Group (ICG), enough
   access to make a broad evaluation of their scheme.

   The ICG's report, in late November, was fairly positive, though it
   expressed some serious worries. Its main one was that the extreme
   corruption and disorder found in Indonesia's prisons may be negating
   all the scheme's attempts to persuade jailed militants that the system
   they are fighting is not utterly thoghut. With some prisoners
   rejecting attempts to deradicalise them, the ICG says the scheme may
   be succeeding only on those who are not particularly dangerous. The
   ICG's Sidney Jones says JI has gone "dormant", so it may no longer
   make sense to focus efforts on its members. Meanwhile, the unreformed
   radicals may be recruiting among the ranks of ordinary prisoners as
   fast as the police-run scheme is deradicalising. And, outside the
   prison walls, other influences such as the dozens of pesantren
   (boarding schools) run openly by JI men, may be turning out more young
   militants.

   A policeman close to the project admits that probably, more radicals
   are being created than are being won over to moderation. But he
   insists that the project has at least got prisoners to divulge
   valuable intelligence. The country now has some policemen with insight
   into the militants' thinking--before, they hadn't a clue. This has
   helped police round up many of JI's leaders including, in June, the
   group's presumed military chief, Abu Dujana, who went on trial this
   week. And there have been no more bombs since 2005.

   Still, any crime-fighting strategy based on the idea of "taking a
   thief to catch a thief" can encounter ethical dilemmas. In Indonesia,
   some of the people the police hired to deradicalise prisoners are only
   marginally less militant than those being lectured to. Mr Imron
   apparently still argues that bombings could be legitimate in
   Indonesia--if there were sufficient public support for them.

   The police's rationale for letting him argue this is that his fairly
   extreme views give him more credibility among his "pupils" than
   someone more moderate and pro-establishment could ever have. As the
   ICG report notes, the whole project is based on the assumption that,
   by bolstering a somewhat more moderate Islamic view of the world, the
   most radical, violent variety is weakened. That is hard to
   disprove--but by lending credibility to some relatively fundamentalist
   views by paying someone to argue them, the authorities may be in
   danger of appearing to endorse them.

   For all the doubts, Indonesia's deradicalisation programme does at
   least seem more likely to produce positive results than the methods
   being tried in Thailand's Muslim-majority southern provinces. The army
   (which seized power in a coup last year) has scooped up hundreds of
   young Muslims merely suspected of "links" to the region's separatist
   uprising, and sent them to camps for compulsory "job training". Last
   month a group of almost 400 of them won a court order declaring their
   detention illegal. If any policy is likely to turn locals against the
   authorities and act as a recruiting-sergeant for militants, this is
   it.


   Civil and democratic rights are in retreat, says an organisation with
   strong, though not uncontested, views on the matter

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   OVER the past half century, it often seemed that the advance of
   democracy and basic freedoms--the right to speak and write without
   fear of persecution, to demand political change, and so on--was
   ineluctable. First the Europeans let their colonies go. Then the
   Soviet empire fell, and with it the communist monopoly on power in
   eastern Europe. And apartheid ended in South Africa.

   Recently, though, freedom's progress may have come to a halt, or even
   gone into reverse. That, at least, is the conclusion of Freedom House,
   an august American lobby group whose observations on the state of
   liberty are a keenly watched indicator. Its report for 2007 speaks of
   a "profoundly disturbing deterioration" in the global picture, with
   reversals seen in 38 countries--nearly four times as many as are
   showing any sign of improvement.

   Using the think-tank's long-established division of the world into
   "free", "partly free" and "not free" countries, the planet is still a
   better place than it was a quarter-century ago. In other words, there
   are still net gains from the fall of communism, at least in central
   Europe, and the decline of militarism in Latin America. But the
   short-term trends seem worrying. Last year was the second in a row
   when liberty, as defined by Freedom House, inched back.

   An especially disturbing sign, says the organisation, is the number of
   countries in all regions of the world where a previously hopeful trend
   has gone into reverse. They include Bangladesh (where the armed forces
   took over last year), Sri Lanka (whose civil war flared up) and the
   Philippines. Other backsliders included Nigeria and Kenya, accounting
   for more than one sub-Saharan African in four between them, plus the
   Palestinian territories and Lebanon. In both Georgia and Kyrgyzstan,
   former Soviet republics whose "colour revolutions" were warmly
   encouraged by Freedom House, there was regression. Only two countries,
   Thailand and Togo, made a clear leap forward last year, going from
   "not free" to "partly free".

   No country joined the top "free" group, and a total of 43 countries,
   representing 36% of the world's population, now languish in the "not
   free" group. None of the eight "worst of the worst"--Cuba, Libya,
   North Korea, Myanmar, Somalia, Sudan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan--was
   credited with any sign of improvement.

   Of course, not all the targets of Freedom House's ire will feel
   embarrassed by their low scores. For example, Cuba's envoys to the
   United Nations have angrily denounced the organisation as a blatant
   instrument of "interventionist activities" by dark forces in
   Washington. And in slightly more respectable quarters (on America's
   academic left, for example) the analysts at Freedom House have been
   criticised for hewing too close to their home country's foreign
   policy.

   So where exactly does Freedom House come from? It was founded in 1941
   by Wendell Willkie and Eleanor Roosevelt, as a counter to Nazism.
   During the cold war it "fought the good fight" against Soviet-backed
   tyrannies but also had harsh words for dictators on America's side of
   the stand-off. At least in American terms, its bosses and trustees
   have covered a broadish range of Republicans and Democrats. James
   Woolsey, a former CIA director, once served as its chairman. Past
   trustees have included Donald Rumsfeld, an ex-defence secretary, and
   Paul Wolfowitz, another Republican luminary who held high office at
   the Pentagon. But board members have also included Lane Kirkland, a
   Democrat who led America's labour movement for 16 years.

   Freedom House not only watches the state of liberty, it also calls
   itself a "catalyst" for the peaceful advancement of civil and
   democratic rights through "analysis, advocacy and action". But it has
   firm ideas about which country is best placed to promote these ideals:
   it has formally stated that whatever their differences, all trustees
   are agreed that "American leadership in international affairs is
   essential to the cause of human rights and freedom." When America
   attacked Iraq in 2003, Freedom House wished the campaign well.

   Nor does the organisation conceal its financial ties to the American
   government, which supplies about 80% of its income. But it strongly
   denies that it acts as an arm of the government, or that it holds back
   from criticising America and its friends when that is warranted. And
   it would be hard to argue that diplomatic friendship with the United
   States has ever guaranteed a country a free pass from the think-tank.
   Israel, a close American friend, used to get relatively poor grades--a
   2 for political rights and a 3 for civil liberties on a descending
   scale of 1 to 7. In recent years, Israel has improved its scores, but
   only in 2005 did its civil-liberty rating rise to 2.

   Japan, another American ally, has also struggled to keep up its grades
   at Freedom House. Having started with a 2 for political rights and a 1
   for civil liberties, it got top marks throughout the 1980s, only to
   slip back to a grade 2 in both categories in the early 1990s. Since
   1995, it has been getting a grade 1 for political rights, but still
   only a 2 for civil liberties. Meanwhile some of America's strategic
   allies, such as Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Egypt, have seen virtually
   no rise in their ratings since the September 2001 terrorist attacks
   despite their role as partners in the "war on terror". All have
   continued to languish at or near the bottom of the pile.

   Insiders say that in years past, there was some internal debate at
   Freedom House over whether or not economic welfare, which affects the
   range of choices people can make, should be included in the calculus
   of liberty. But the decision has been to keep economic factors out.
   This helps to explain why China, in the midst of the horrors of its
   Cultural Revolution when the surveys began, has hardly managed to
   improve on its early, rock-bottom ratings. Its "civil liberties" are
   still assessed at a dismal 6.

   Russia, too, has been rated on the basis of its worsening human and
   political rights with no account taken of rising living standards. It
   was awarded a relatively good 3 for both political rights and civil
   liberties in 1991, bringing it within a whisker of membership of the
   "free" group, but is now locked again in the "not free" camp.

   How much freer do people feel when they have a few roubles or yuan in
   their pocket (and access to other goodies like computers and compact
   discs)? That is an endlessly debatable question. By contrast the sort
   of liberties and non-liberties measured by Freedom House (multi-party
   elections, due process and so on) are relatively tangible and easy to
   assess. That alone may be quite a good argument for having at least
   one index whose stated purpose is to assess formal freedoms--to vote,
   speak, assemble and so on. That does not imply that other factors,
   such as prosperity, have no bearing on how free people feel.

   In any event, critics of Freedom House will soon have fresh material
   which they can test for pro-American bias: a special report on civil
   liberties in the United States is to be published, probably in March.


                                                                    Alamy

                                   Alamy

   Money and effort aren't enough to impart the skills and knowledge
   needed in a cut-throat world

   SPOOKED by the effects of globalisation on their low-skilled citizens,
   rich countries have been pouring money and political energy into
   education. In the United States, it has been proclaimed that no child
   will be left behind. Whether this programme, launched by George Bush
   in 2002, has raised standards will be a big issue in the 2008
   presidential election. Next year Britain will introduce ambitious new
   qualifications, combining academic and vocational study. For the
   industrial countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
   Development (OECD), average spending on primary and secondary
   schooling rose by almost two-fifths in real terms between 1995 and
   2004.

   Oddly, this has had little measurable effect. The latest report from
   the OECD's Programme for International Student Assessment shows
   average attainment staying largely flat. This tome, just published,
   compares the reading, mathematical and scientific progress of 400,000
   15-year-olds in the 30 OECD countries and 27 others, covering 87% of
   the world economy. Its predecessors in 2000 and 2003 focused on
   reading and maths respectively. This time science took centre stage.

   At the top are some old stars: Finland as usual did best for all-round
   excellence, followed by South Korea (which did best in reading) and
   Hong Kong; Canada and Taiwan were strong but slightly patchier,
   followed by Australia and Japan. At the bottom, Mexico, still the
   weakest performer in the OECD, showed gains in maths; Chile did best
   in Latin America.

   There is bad news for the United States: average performance was poor
   by world standards. Its schools serve strong students only moderately
   well, and do downright poorly with the large numbers of weak students.
   A quarter of 15-year-olds do not even reach basic levels of scientific
   competence (against an OECD average of a fifth). According to Andreas
   Schleicher, the OECD's head of education research, Americans are only
   now realising the scale of the task they face. Some individual states
   would welcome a separate assessment.

   The results are unsettling for Britain, too. The country was excluded
   from the OECD's 2003 study because its sample of students was so poor.
   That, conveniently, disguised what is now apparent: that the excellent
   results of 2000, when the country came seventh in reading and well
   above average in both maths and science, were a statistical blip. This
   time Britain is way down the league in all three subjects. OECD
   analysts and British officials are highlighting the good news:
   immigrants do comparatively well, and 3% of British students put in
   top-ranking performances in science, as compared with only 1% across
   the OECD. "A fresh start," said OECD officials, diplomatically--but
   the results have embarrassed a government that claims to have put
   education at the top of its agenda for a decade.

   The improvement prize went to Poland, an also-ran in 2000. That
   reflects not increased spending, but successful reforms in 1999, which
   ended the practice of early selection on ability. By the second study,
   in 2003, the gains were already noticeable--and so marked that OECD
   statisticians cautioned privately that two data points do not make a
   trend, and decided to wait and see what happened next time. Further
   improvements have dispelled all doubts, making Poles the poster
   children for the proposition that early "tracking"--allocating pupils
   to different sorts of schools or programmes--hurts weak ones without
   benefiting the rest. "We have learnt that you can really make a change
   by bringing weaker performers into more demanding streams," says
   Barbara Ischinger, the OECD's director of education.

   Letting schools run themselves seems to boost a country's position in
   this high-stakes international tournament: giving school principals
   the power to control budgets, set incentives and decide whom to hire
   and how much to pay them. Publishing school results helps, too. More
   important than either, though, are high-quality teachers: a common
   factor among all the best performers is that teachers are drawn from
   the top ranks of graduates.

   Another common theme is that rising educational tides seem to lift all
   boats. In general--the United States and Britain may be
   exceptions--countries do well either by children of all abilities, or
   by none. Those where many do well are also those where few fall
   behind. A new feature in this year's study is an attempt to work out
   how differences between schools, as opposed to differences within
   them, determine performance (see chart). Variation between schools is
   big in Germany (to be expected, as most schools select children on
   ground of ability). But results also vary in some countries (like
   Japan) with nominally comprehensive systems. In top-performing
   Finland, by contrast, the differences between schools are nearly
   trivial.

                                                                    Alamy
                                                                    Alamy

                                              I'll show you how to be top

   And what can be done to ensure that budding scientists blossom? Give
   them teachers with excellent qualifications in science, spend plenty
   of time on the subject and engage their enthusiasm with after-school
   clubs, events and competitions, says the report. One does not need to
   understand string theory to grasp this, but doing the first two is
   hard. All science graduates, and physics graduates in particular, have
   a head start in other high-paid fields, such as financial services.
   And school curriculums are under constant pressure from meddlesome
   governments.

   The last recommendation--sparking children's interest in the subject
   with appealing science-based activities--comes with a caveat: a keen
   interest in science does not always mean being good at it. Half of all
   young Mexicans fail to reach basic levels of scientific literacy, but
   they value science more highly than their counterparts almost
   everywhere else. And across the world, the less students know about
   science, the more optimistic they are about the chances of solving the
   planet's environmental problems.


   What works in education: the lessons according to McKinsey

   THE British government, says Sir Michael Barber, once an adviser to
   the former prime minister, Tony Blair, has changed pretty much every
   aspect of education policy in England and Wales, often more than once.
   "The funding of schools, the governance of schools, curriculum
   standards, assessment and testing, the role of local government, the
   role of national government, the range and nature of national
   agencies, schools admissions"--you name it, it's been changed and
   sometimes changed back. The only thing that hasn't changed has been
   the outcome. According to the National Foundation for Education
   Research, there had been (until recently) no measurable improvement in
   the standards of literacy and numeracy in primary schools for 50
   years.

   England and Wales are not alone. Australia has almost tripled
   education spending per student since 1970. No improvement. American
   spending has almost doubled since 1980 and class sizes are the lowest
   ever. Again, nothing. No matter what you do, it seems, standards
   refuse to budge (see chart). To misquote Woody Allen, those who can't
   do, teach; those who can't teach, run the schools.

   Why bother, you might wonder. Nothing seems to matter. Yet something
   must. There are big variations in educational standards between
   countries. These have been measured and re-measured by the OECD's
   Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) which has
   established, first, that the best performing countries do much better
   than the worst and, second, that the same countries head such league
   tables again and again: Canada, Finland, Japan, Singapore, South
   Korea.

   Those findings raise what ought to be a fruitful question: what do the
   successful lot have in common? Yet the answer to that has proved
   surprisingly elusive. Not more money. Singapore spends less per
   student than most. Nor more study time. Finnish students begin school
   later, and study fewer hours, than in other rich countries.

   Now, an organisation from outside the teaching fold--McKinsey, a
   consultancy that advises companies and governments--has boldly gone
   where educationalists have mostly never gone: into policy
   recommendations based on the PISA findings. Schools, it says[3]*, need
   to do three things: get the best teachers; get the best out of
   teachers; and step in when pupils start to lag behind. That may not
   sound exactly "first-of-its-kind" (which is how Andreas Schleicher,
   the OECD's head of education research, describes McKinsey's approach):
   schools surely do all this already? Actually, they don't. If these
   ideas were really taken seriously, they would change education
   radically.

   Begin with hiring the best. There is no question that, as one South
   Korean official put it, "the quality of an education system cannot
   exceed the quality of its teachers." Studies in Tennessee and Dallas
   have shown that, if you take pupils of average ability and give them
   to teachers deemed in the top fifth of the profession, they end up in
   the top 10% of student performers; if you give them to teachers from
   the bottom fifth, they end up at the bottom. The quality of teachers
   affects student performance more than anything else.

   Yet most school systems do not go all out to get the best. The New
   Commission on the Skills of the American Workforce, a non-profit
   organisation, says America typically recruits teachers from the bottom
   third of college graduates. Washington, DC recently hired as
   chancellor for its public schools an alumna of an organisation called
   Teach for America, which seeks out top graduates and hires them to
   teach for two years. Both her appointment and the organisation caused
   a storm.

   A bias against the brightest happens partly because of lack of money
   (governments fear they cannot afford them), and partly because other
   aims get in the way. Almost every rich country has sought to reduce
   class size lately. Yet all other things being equal, smaller classes
   mean more teachers for the same pot of money, producing lower salaries
   and lower professional status. That may explain the paradox that,
   after primary school, there seems little or no relationship between
   class size and educational achievement.

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                             Asian values or good policy?

   McKinsey argues that the best performing education systems
   nevertheless manage to attract the best. In Finland all new teachers
   must have a master's degree. South Korea recruits primary-school
   teachers from the top 5% of graduates, Singapore and Hong Kong from
   the top 30%.

   They do this in a surprising way. You might think that schools should
   offer as much money as possible, seek to attract a large pool of
   applicants into teacher training and then pick the best. Not so, says
   McKinsey. If money were so important, then countries with the highest
   teacher salaries--Germany, Spain and Switzerland--would presumably be
   among the best. They aren't. In practice, the top performers pay no
   more than average salaries.

   Nor do they try to encourage a big pool of trainees and select the
   most successful. Almost the opposite. Singapore screens candidates
   with a fine mesh before teacher training and accepts only the number
   for which there are places. Once in, candidates are employed by the
   education ministry and more or less guaranteed a job. Finland also
   limits the supply of teacher-training places to demand. In both
   countries, teaching is a high-status profession (because it is
   fiercely competitive) and there are generous funds for each trainee
   teacher (because there are few of them).

   South Korea shows how the two systems produce different results. Its
   primary-school teachers have to pass a four-year undergraduate degree
   from one of only a dozen universities. Getting in requires top grades;
   places are rationed to match vacancies. In contrast, secondary-school
   teachers can get a diploma from any one of 350 colleges, with laxer
   selection criteria. This has produced an enormous glut of newly
   qualified secondary-school teachers--11 for each job at last count. As
   a result, secondary-school teaching is the lower status job in South
   Korea; everyone wants to be a primary-school teacher. The lesson seems
   to be that teacher training needs to be hard to get into, not easy.

   Teaching the teachers

   Having got good people, there is a temptation to shove them into
   classrooms and let them get on with it. For understandable reasons,
   teachers rarely get much training in their own classrooms (in
   contrast, doctors do a lot of training in hospital wards). But
   successful countries can still do much to overcome the difficulty.

   Singapore provides teachers with 100 hours of training a year and
   appoints senior teachers to oversee professional development in each
   school. In Japan and Finland, groups of teachers visit each others'
   classrooms and plan lessons together. In Finland, they get an
   afternoon off a week for this. In Boston, which has one of America's
   most improved public-school systems, schedules are arranged so that
   those who teach the same subject have free classes together for common
   planning. This helps spread good ideas around. As one educator
   remarked, "when a brilliant American teacher retires, almost all of
   the lesson plans and practices that she has developed also retire.
   When a Japanese teacher retires, she leaves a legacy."

   Lastly, the most successful countries are distinctive not just in whom
   they employ so things go right but in what they do when things go
   wrong, as they always do. For the past few years, almost all countries
   have begun to focus more attention on testing, the commonest way to
   check if standards are falling. McKinsey's research is neutral on the
   usefulness of this, pointing out that while Boston tests every student
   every year, Finland has largely dispensed with national examinations.
   Similarly, schools in New Zealand and England and Wales are tested
   every three or four years and the results published, whereas
   top-of-the-class Finland has no formal review and keeps the results of
   informal audits confidential.

   But there is a pattern in what countries do once pupils and schools
   start to fail. The top performers intervene early and often. Finland
   has more special-education teachers devoted to laggards than anyone
   else--as many as one teacher in seven in some schools. In any given
   year, a third of pupils get one-on-one remedial lessons. Singapore
   provides extra classes for the bottom 20% of students and teachers are
   expected to stay behind--often for hours--after school to help
   students.

   None of this is rocket science. Yet it goes against some of the
   unspoken assumptions of education policy. Scratch a teacher or an
   administrator (or a parent), and you often hear that it is impossible
   to get the best teachers without paying big salaries; that teachers
   in, say, Singapore have high status because of Confucian values; or
   that Asian pupils are well behaved and attentive for cultural reasons.
   McKinsey's conclusions seem more optimistic: getting good teachers
   depends on how you select and train them; teaching can become a career
   choice for top graduates without paying a fortune; and that, with the
   right policies, schools and pupils are not doomed to lag behind.
   [gray.gif]

   *How the world's best performing schools systems come out on top.
   McKinsey & Co.


   The UN's new secretary-general is neither a dazzler nor a
   grandstander, but (at last) he has some things to show for his long
   hours and dogged phone calls

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP


   ON DECEMBER 31st African Union troops in Darfur exchanged green berets
   for blue ones. That did not make their job of policing Sudan's
   war-wracked western region much easier, but it signalled the formal
   creation of what is set to be the world's biggest peacekeeping
   operation, with 26,000 personnel, under the joint aegis of the AU and
   the United Nations. A fortnight earlier, 187 countries at a UN
   conference in Bali, including China and the United States,
   unexpectedly agreed to begin talks on a global effort to save the
   planet from climate change.

   Apart from those two things, however, Ban Ki-moon would appear to have
   little else to claim for his first year as UN secretary-general. After
   years of headline-grabbing rows, divisions and scandals, the
   beleaguered world body suddenly seems to have gone quiet. No more bold
   plans for sweeping reforms; no more dazzling speeches, or grand
   visions for the organisation's future. Yet behind the scenes, without
   great fanfare, Mr Ban, although still far from a household name, is
   quietly getting things done.

   It has to be admitted that the UN's first Asian secretary-general in
   35 years got off to a poor start. A South Korean career diplomat, he
   knew little of the UN's complex culture, unlike his predecessor, Kofi
   Annan, who had spent his life working his way up through the
   organisation's ranks. Yet one of Mr Ban's first acts was to call for
   the resignation of all Mr Annan's senior advisers, replacing them with
   often inexperienced or even ill-qualified staff from outside the UN.
   His reliance on a coterie of compatriots provoked particular
   irritation.

   There followed a series of embarrassing gaffes from which better
   counsel might have saved him. On learning of Iraqi plans to execute
   Saddam Hussein, for example, he claimed that the death penalty was a
   matter for individual member states--apparently oblivious of the
   General Assembly's history of opposition to capital punishment. During
   a visit to east Jerusalem, he deeply offended Palestinians by
   declaring himself happy to be in Israel. And his early attempts to
   push through UN reforms without adequate consultation raised hackles
   as well as eyebrows, particularly among the developing nations.

   Furthermore, the low-key Mr Ban is not the natural showman that Mr
   Annan was. Smiling and polite, but rather bland in manner, he lacks
   the easy charm and dexterity with the English language that
   distinguished his predecessor. Matters have not been helped by some
   fairly disastrous appointments to his communications team. He is more
   of a doer than a communicator, he insists. Results are what count, not
   flowery phrases and rhetorical flourishes. Yet the latter can be
   useful, particularly when the former are still rather thin on the
   ground.

   In a speech summing up his first year in office, Mr Ban said that he
   had "not sat still". He had flown 125,000 miles, made 57 official
   visits to 39 countries and territories on six continents, held more
   than 300 bilateral meetings with government officials and spent 132
   days "on the road", he noted. But other than getting blue helmets into
   Darfur and helping to get climate-change talks started, what has he
   done?

   Nothing really spectacular, it is true. But that was not his aim. As
   Mr Ban announced before taking up his post, he wanted to concentrate
   on the many lofty goals that had already been set for the world body,
   rather than identify "new frontiers to conquer". In particular, he
   wanted to restore its excellence, integrity and pride by making it
   more efficient, more accountable and more relevant to the needs of all
   its 192 members, including the weightiest of all--the United
   States--without whose support the UN can do little.

   It is easy to forget the antipathy to the UN that existed in many
   American circles when Mr Ban first took over. Fury over the war in
   Iraq and the oil-for-food scandal had only recently died down; and
   many Republicans in particular still regarded the UN as an
   unnecessarily costly, disastrously managed, corruption-ridden obstacle
   to the free exercise of American policies in the world. There was even
   talk of scrapping the world body.

   A year later, the tone has changed markedly, both in Washington and at
   the organisation's headquarters in New York. The departure of both
   John Bolton, America's abrasive ambassador to the UN, and Mr Annan,
   who suffered in Washington from his alleged role in "preventing" UN
   approval for the invasion of Iraq (though that was a decision of the
   Security Council), has helped. So has the appointment of a new, more
   consensual American ambassador, Zalmay Khalilzad, who believes America
   needs friends to operate effectively in an increasingly globalised
   world.

   Eschewing his predecessor's bullying tactics and confrontational
   style, Mr Khalilzad has quickly earned a reputation as a shrewd
   operator. Well-liked and with a lot of charm, he has helped dissipate
   the huge distrust formerly felt towards America, particularly among
   developing countries. Far from wanting to weaken the UN, Mr Khalilzad
   says he wants it to become more involved in places like Afghanistan
   and Iraq (where he has served as ambassador), Darfur and Lebanon. Even
   George Bush is now talking of being committed to a "strong and
   vibrant" UN.

   Is this because America has found a secretary-general who is willing
   to do its bidding? The United States is certainly said to have wanted
   someone weak and pliable to replace the troublesome Mr Annan, and Mr
   Ban was its choice (and China's). But even initial critics admit that
   the inscrutable Korean is far from being an American patsy. Indeed, he
   has skilfully exploited his links with his two most powerful backers
   to push through extremely difficult agreements on both Darfur (opposed
   by China) and climate change (opposed by both China and America).

   Meanwhile, he has been pressing ahead with reforms to make the
   organisation more effective, transparent and honest. As of this week,
   the ethics code for 9,000 staff in the secretariat, established in the
   wake of the oil-for-food scandal, is being extended to all 60,000
   employees in the organisation's various semi-autonomous agencies and
   funds. Any body that does not set up its own ethics monitoring system
   will come under the secretariat's Ethics Office. And sanctions are
   real; just before Christmas, 11 staff found guilty of corruption were
   sacked.

   Mr Ban has also extended the work of the Procurement Task Force,
   likewise set up in the wake of the oil-for-food scandal, to
   investigate allegations of fraud in procurement deals. It has already
   exposed more than $600m in tainted UN contracts, mostly related to
   peacekeeping missions on which more than $5 billion is now spent every
   a year, and is investigating a further $1 billion in suspect deals.

                                                                      EPA
                                                                      EPA

                              Not just a stony face: after Algeria's bomb

   Meanwhile, under the expert guidance of Alicia Bárcena, Mr Annan's
   former chef de cabinet and one of the notable survivors of the former
   regime, a commendable start has been made on one of the UN's most
   sensitive and intractable problems--management reform. For the first
   time in the body's history, senior managers have been asked to detail
   all the mandates affecting their departments, some 9,000 in all, with
   a view to chopping or consolidating the thousands that are outdated,
   overlapping or no longer cost-effective.

   Mrs Bárcena has also launched a savage campaign against waste. She
   means to save mounds of paper, for example, by getting all the UN's
   present paper reports done electronically. As overseer of a planned $2
   billion renovation of the UN's 39-storey headquarters, she plans to
   save on acres of wasted office space. And she hopes to exploit the
   expected retirement over the next five years of nearly half the UN's
   managerial staff to achieve the almost impossible task at the world
   body of cutting posts and shifting staff to new jobs.

   Contrary to expectations, Mr Ban has also been surprisingly good on
   human-rights issues. Although he can do nothing about the disastrous
   new Human Rights Council, which was set up before he took over, he has
   been pressing ahead with the idea of an international "responsibility
   to protect" civilians from genocide and other atrocities when their
   own governments are unable or unwilling to do so.

   Following that principle's reluctant adoption by the UN summit of
   world leaders in 2005, it risked being still-born. But Mr Ban is now
   seeking to resuscitate it, pushing through the appointment of a
   full-time senior adviser on genocide and other atrocities along with a
   part-time adviser on the "responsibility to protect"--despite initial
   fierce opposition from Russia as well as many developing states who
   object to the violation of their sovereignty by do-gooding Westerners.
   All senior UN appointments have to be approved by a majority of the
   General Assembly.

   In recent weeks Mr Ban has shown that he is sensitive to individual
   tragedy as well as to atrocities on a larger scale. He was visibly
   overcome with emotion when comforting the families of 17 UN staff who
   were killed by a terrorist bomb in Algiers.

   A comeback kid

   After his first six months Mr Ban was widely being written off, in the
   words of one underling, as "mediocrity big-time". Thrown on to a world
   stage for which he was ill-prepared, he seemed destined to political
   oblivion. Despite his evident good intentions and commitment to the
   world body, some survivors from Mr Annan's reign became so
   disillusioned by his lacklustre performance that they thought of
   quitting. No longer.

   As Mr Ban himself admits, his learning curve was steep. He was
   initially overwhelmed by both the sheer size of his job and its lack
   of any real power other than persuasion. As a Korean, he was used to
   putting his job ahead of everything, even his family. But at the UN he
   found a very different culture. Here were 192 sovereign states, each
   apparently determined to put national interests before the common
   good. As a man of integrity, he had perhaps naively hoped to "lead by
   example". At the UN, that is often not possible.

   He has nevertheless won widespread respect. As many staffers and
   ambassadors have noted, what this seemingly grey man lacks in
   charisma, he makes up for in industry, a sharp mind and sheer
   tenacity. He gets on the phone and badgers world leaders relentlessly.
   That is how he got his breakthrough at Bali. That is how he convinced
   China to allow the UN flag to fly in Darfur. And he clearly hopes that
   his quiet doggedness can achieve quite a lot more before he leaves the
   East River.


   America lags behind its peers in preventing avoidable deaths 

   COMPARING the health systems of different countries is a tricky
   business. Even if you look at countries in the same income bracket,
   there are plenty of factors, from demography to culture, that confuse
   the picture. But a new study of data from 19 prosperous nations draws
   one firm conclusion: despite being the top spender per head on health,
   the United States lags painfully, and increasingly, behind other
   wealthy countries in the overall performance of its medical system.

   That harsh judgment is made by Ellen Nolte and Martin McKee,
   researchers at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
   They looked at deaths that should have been preventable by proper
   health care in people under the age of 75. These include deaths
   resulting from bacterial infections, treatable cancers, diabetes and
   surgical complications; over a fifth of male deaths and nearly a third
   of female deaths result from such causes.

   They found that the group as a whole did well in tackling this
   problem: the decline in what they call "amenable mortality" averaged
   16% across these countries from 1997 to 2003: the decline was 17% for
   men and 14% for women. But the news was not so good in the United
   States; it had the worst record of the countries studied. America cut
   "amenable" deaths by only 4% during that period; it fell to bottom of
   the table.

   The study makes two sharp observations. First, countries that started
   off with low levels of avoidable deaths (like France) and those with
   higher levels (like Britain) saw big improvements, even as America
   lagged. Second, merely by lifting its performance to the level of the
   average rich country, America could avoid perhaps 75,000 "excess
   deaths" per year; if it matched the top three, it could save 100,000
   lives a year. There are things to be said in the American system's
   defence; for example, it has an impressive history of medical
   innovation. But for Americans wondering what their country's big
   spending on health care really buys, the conclusions are sobering.


   Vladimir Putin's recent diatribe against America reflects the deeply
   resentful attitude the former superpower has towards the remaining one

                                                                       AP

                                     AP


   ONE way to understand Russia's bloody history is to see it as an
   oscillating tussle between forces bent on emulating the West and those
   resolved to shun it. For much of the 20th century, the chief object of
   Russian admiration and revulsion has been the United States--the
   country that, with its combinations of fissiparous diversity and
   fierce patriotism, insularity and messianic sense of destiny, Russia
   arguably most resembles. After the rushed, giddy embrace of American
   ideas in the 1990s, the anti-Western impulse has again become
   increasingly conspicuous during the presidency of Vladimir Putin.
   Judging by his speech at a conference in Munich on February 10th, the
   ascendancy of this old reflex is now complete.

   Addressing Robert Gates, America's defence secretary, John McCain, a
   Republican senator, Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel and other
   bigwigs, Mr Putin gave a blunt précis of Russian grievances with
   America. "Unilateral and frequently illegitimate actions," he said,
   had "caused new human tragedies and created new centres of tension."
   The world, Mr Putin added, was witnessing "an almost uncontained hyper
   use of force", which was plunging it into "an abyss of permanent
   conflicts". Lest anyone mistake him, he specified that "the United
   States has overstepped its national borders in every way," exhibiting
   "a greater and greater disdain" for international law. This was
   fuelling an arms race and driving some countries to acquire weapons of
   mass destruction.

   None of this was strictly new: Mr Putin and other Russian officials
   have made all these points before. But the tone, forum and
   concentration of his criticism distinguished this outburst. Other
   denunciations of America have been more periphrastic ("comrade wolf
   knows who to eat," Mr Putin said obliquely last year, "and he eats
   without listening to others"). He probably meant to cause a stir in
   Munich even before Mr Gates last week listed Russia's "uncertain path"
   among America's military concerns. And he succeeded.

   Two questions stand out amid the fury and incredulity that Mr Putin's
   speech provoked. First, how did it come to this? After he and George
   Bush met for the first time, in 2001--when both were greenhorn leaders
   with questionable mandates--Mr Bush famously said he had looked into
   his counterpart's soul, and liked what he saw. Mr Putin's solidarity
   after the September 11th terrorist attacks seemed to augur a new era
   in Russian-American relations. Less than six years on, they seem to
   have reached a post-Soviet nadir. The second question is, how much
   deeper might they sink?

   In their early enthusiasm for Mr Putin, some diplomats clearly made a
   classic error in Western thinking about Russian leaders: wishful
   thinking. What some saw as a strategic choice for partnership with
   America seems, for the Kremlin, to have been instead a tactical
   alliance. In return for what the Russians saw as
   concessions--tolerating America's military presence in Central Asia;
   swallowing NATO's expansion to Russia's Baltic border--the Russians
   expected something back. Instead, they feel, there was mounting
   criticism of their domestic affairs, disdain for their views on Iraq
   and resistance to the international ambitions of Russian companies.

   Mr Putin's assault, from 2003, on the Yukos oil company and its boss,
   Mikhail Khodorkovsky, helped to bring these resentments to the
   surface. But the most important watershed came in autumn 2004. After
   the Beslan school massacre, something in Mr Putin seemed to snap; he
   denounced unnamed foreign powers that, he said, were intent on
   weakening Russia. Then came the Kremlin's cack-handed efforts to
   intervene in Ukraine's presidential election. The Russians saw their
   defeat in Ukraine as evidence of perfidious American meddling in
   Russia's sphere of influence. For the Americans, the debacle showed
   that a truth plain in Mr Putin's domestic policies--that he was not a
   real democrat--would affect his country's foreign behaviour too.

   Russia's domestic politics explain Mr Putin's Munich performance as
   much as do his foreign frustrations. As the president nears the end of
   his constitutional term, he is determined--says Fyodor Lukyanov of
   Russia in Global Affairs, a journal--to prove that on his watch
   "Russia has returned to the global arena." The presidential handover
   in 2008 will be a risky period in the highly personalised system of
   government Mr Putin has created: the old foreign bogeyman may help.

   But the main impact of the big domestic changes under Mr Putin--power
   corralled in the Kremlin, and an oil-fuelled economic revival--has
   been to engender a self-confidence unprecedented since Soviet times.
   Parliament, regional leaders, the media and once-uppity tycoons have
   all been domesticated (Mr Putin evidently did not see the irony of his
   complaint in Munich about "a world in which there is one master, one
   sovereign"). Much of Russia's foreign debt has been repaid. There is
   now no reason--no external obligations, no internal constraint--to
   stop him speaking as he pleases. That was clear at last year's G8
   summit in St Petersburg, when Mr Putin mocked Mr Bush over Iraq, and
   Tony Blair over a corruption scandal.

   Thus emboldened, the Kremlin is now as eager to be feared as liked. It
   feels it can strong-arm foreign energy companies, and object anew to
   things which Russia seemed to have accepted, like America's
   missile-defence plans. Even while asserting that their own strategic
   reach will not be diminished, Mr Putin and others have denounced the
   possible arrival of missile-defence kit in Poland and the Czech
   Republic. They also feel that the power Russia has recovered has to be
   demonstrated to be real--and preferably demonstrated to the diminution
   of America's. That partly explains Russia's behaviour in the Middle
   East, which Mr Putin visited this week, and where he again talked
   mischievously about setting up a "gas OPEC". In Munich he aired
   another telling theory, heard about the Kremlin recently: Russia did
   not lose the cold war but voluntarily ended it.

   These atavistic urges, misunderstandings and, in some cases (such as
   NATO expansion) legitimately conflicting interests, have created a
   diplomatic climate in which, when Alexander Litvinenko, a former
   Russian agent, was murdered in London last year, many people in
   America and elsewhere found it natural to assume that Mr Putin was the
   ultimate culprit (an assumption which, in turn, poisoned relations
   still further). The Munich conference, say some, may become the event
   that future historians will fix on--like Churchill's "iron curtain"
   speech in Fulton, Missouri, in 1946--as the moment when pre-existing
   tensions became explicit. Both Mr Putin and his defence minister,
   Sergei Ivanov, encouraged this epochal thinking by talking about a
   new, if virtual, "Berlin Wall". Kommersant, a Russian paper, observed
   that Mr Putin had only lacked a shoe, like the one once banged by
   Nikita Khrushchev at the United Nations.

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   A hard crossing: the land route (via the Bering Strait) from Russia to
                                  America

   The Fulton analogy goes too far. For all its "petro-arrogance", as
   Dmitri Simes of the Nixon Center in Washington, DC, puts it, Mr
   Putin's Russia is not the Soviet Union. It has a permanent seat on the
   United Nations Security Council, which it can use to thwart American
   policy towards Iran and Kosovo (which may yet provide a pretext for
   even nastier Russian meddling in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, breakaway
   regions of Georgia). It has the biggest hydrocarbon reserves in the
   world, which can be used as "tools of intimidation and blackmail", as
   Dick Cheney alleged in an aggressive speech in Vilnius in May 2006, to
   which Mr Putin's Munich address was in part a riposte. It has lots of
   nuclear arms to underpin its self-esteem. But it does not have the
   conventional forces, nor the economic and ideological resources to
   compete with America globally as it did in the cold war. Rather than
   declaring another one, says Dmitri Trenin of the Carnegie Moscow
   Centre, Mr Putin was staking a claim to be the leader of the global
   opposition--calculating that Iraq made this a propitious time to
   announce Russia's candidacy.

   For the Americans, all that is troubling, but less than catastrophic.
   There are broadly two schools of thought on how to deal with Mr
   Putin's Russia, in Congress and within the administration. One wants
   to confront and even punish the Kremlin, for example by throwing
   Russia out of the G8; the other, to which Mr Bush mostly seems to
   belong, wants to remain congenial to enable co-operation in Iran and
   elsewhere. (In his most emollient Munich passage, Mr Putin recalled
   their early affinity by calling Mr Bush "my friend" and "a decent
   man".) America's reaction to Russia's presidential election--set to be
   more a coronation than a free choice--will be the litmus test of its
   Russia policy. Yet the bottom line is that Russia looms much smaller
   in Mr Bush's mind than vice versa.

   But there are two reasons to fear that the relationship is more likely
   to get worse than recover. One is what is sometimes called the "values
   gap". Mr Putin exposed this gap in Munich, when he aired some very
   Russian neuroses along with his standard critique of American power.
   He said the OSCE--an international body that has mildly and correctly
   criticised rigged elections in some ex-Soviet states--was becoming "a
   vulgar instrument designed to promote the foreign-policy interests of
   one or a group of countries." He again insisted that non-governmental
   organisations active in Russia but funded from abroad were the tools
   of foreign governments. In an interview this week with al-Jazeera, Mr
   Putin made plain the basic conviction underlying these moans: that all
   American talk about Russia's democratic failings was so much
   realpolitik. Critics of Russia's human-rights record, he said, "are
   using this kind of demagogy as a means to pursue their own
   foreign-policy goals in Russia."

   The other worry is that this gap applies not only to Mr Putin and the
   other ex-KGB types who make up much of his entourage, but to many
   ordinary Russians too. General Russian attitudes to America are
   hardening, and suspicion of American motives spreading, even as
   American-style comforts and living standards become more accessible.
   Alexei Levinson, a Russian sociologist, says many Russians exhibit a
   "deep ambivalence" towards America, which has persisted after
   communism's collapse.

   In fact, admiration and revulsion have always co-existed, albeit in
   varying proportions: Stalin himself recommended "the combination of
   Russian revolutionary élan with American efficiency." In a country
   whose media is as tamed as Russia's, public opinion is largely formed
   by government propaganda. But there is evidence--on the streets, as
   well as in opinion polls--that the crescent nationalism of Mr Putin's
   foreign policy is catering to the Russian mood as much as shaping it.

