
                                              Rafael Andrade/Folha Imagem

                        Rafael Andrade/Folha Imagem

   Edir Macedo (pictured below) and his Universal Church have prospered
   by offering a religion "of results" to the upwardly mobile

   THE Tuesday-lunchtime exorcism at the São Paulo cathedral of the
   Universal Church of the Kingdom of God is well-attended, as always. On
   stage a woman in a brown trouser suit is moaning into a microphone,
   her back to the audience. Her voice flits uncontrollably between gruff
   low tones and high-pitched squeaks. This is the devil talking. He has
   been with her ever since the mistress of her philandering husband went
   to an African cult and put a spell on her. The congregation prays, the
   priest puts his hands on her and the devil is cast out, leaving its
   former host exhausted and shivering.

   Brazil is fertile land for Pentecostalism, a strain of Christianity
   characterised by the belief that God performs miraculous works for his
   faithful so regularly that they can be written into a timetable. The
   best guess of the World Christian Database, an American statistical
   service, is that Brazil has 24m Pentecostal Christians, compared with
   5.7m in the United States, where modern Pentecostalism began.

   The Universal Church is only the third-biggest Pentecostal group in
   Brazil, but it is the most ambitious. It has branches in 172
   countries, but in Brazil it also has its own political party (the
   Partido Republicano Brasileiro, or PRB) and owns Rede Record, the
   second-largest television network (which includes a 24-hour news
   channel).

   The man behind this religious conglomerate is Edir Macedo, known by
   his followers as "the Bishop". One of the world's most successful
   religious entrepreneurs, he does not give interviews. But two of his
   journalists have recently published his authorised biography, "The
   Bishop: the Revelatory Story of Edir Macedo".

   Despite the subtitle, the book gives little away. He describes his
   arrest for charlatanism in 1992 as a blow "like a heart attack", but
   does not deal with the substance of the allegation (he was released
   after just 12 days). The book is long on trivia (Mr Macedo confides
   that his favourite cologne is Acqua di Parma and discusses his large
   collection of Italian silk ties). But there is nothing on the church's
   finances.

   Mr Macedo was born to a fairly comfortable middle-class family that
   became less so when his father died. He and his brothers hawked snacks
   made by their mother round the industrial districts of São Cristovão,
   in Rio de Janeiro state. Mr Macedo got his first regular job in the
   Rio state lottery, thanks to a family political connection. He studied
   at night. His description of his conversion from Catholicism is oddly
   muted.

   From its foundation in 1977, the Universal Church has stressed that
   the faithful would be rewarded for sacrifices, usually of a financial
   kind. Followers are asked to give 10% of their income; "the church of
   results" will then reward them with blessings, in the form of
   miraculous healing, or success for their families or at work. Church
   services often revolve around testimonies of such results. "Offerings
   [to God] are investments," says Mr Macedo.

   Selling prosperity theology to the poor attracts criticism from those
   who believe that the Universal Church exploits the credulity of the
   desperate. In his book Mr Macedo defends himself robustly. Those who
   earn nothing can still come to services and enjoy the large
   air-conditioned hall and a clean bathroom without paying. They may go
   away determined to succeed, and might even give up drinking, stop
   beating their wives and join the church. "Whom have I harmed? That is
   the question: whom have I harmed?" He attacks the Catholic Church for
   eulogising poverty.

   Mr Macedo's success has brought growing influence in Brazilian public
   life. He has built Rede Record, bought for $45m in 1990, into a
   powerful rival to Globo, the country's leading broadcaster. Though the
   Universal Church provides a captive audience for its religious
   programming, Record has grown mainly by showing popular American shows
   and investing in its own telenovelas (soaps). It has secured exclusive
   rights to the Beijing Olympics.

   The PRB, founded in 2005, has only four of the 513 seats in the
   federal Chamber of Deputies. It is driven by pragmatism rather than by
   ideology (it is not hostile to abortion, for example). Its main
   purpose appears to be to defend the interests of the Universal Church
   by deterring attacks from its powerful enemies, which include the
   Catholic church and Globo.

   Preaching in his São Paulo cathedral, Mr Macedo is soothing, his
   message backed by rising chords played on a synthesiser. He asks the
   congregation to talk to God, and a couple of thousand private
   conversations resonate in the hall. Some people start to cry, others
   hold their arms aloft. Then the Bishop gets on to the subject of
   offerings. To sacrifice is divine, he tells the congregation. Maybe
   so, but to devise ingenious business models is human.




   What the loss of a key ally means for the Lula government


   AS THE president of the Senate, Renan Calheiros was perhaps the most
   powerful ally of President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva in Brazil's
   legislature. Seven months ago, the media, acting on tip-offs from the
   federal police, accused him of getting a lobbyist for a construction
   firm to make regular child-maintenance payments to his former
   mistress. On December 4th Mr Calheiros finally resigned his post.

   Thus ended a tenacious rearguard action. As well as the link with the
   lobbyist, Mr Calheiros was alleged to have used shell companies to buy
   two radio stations and a newspaper in his home state, and to have paid
   for a dossier digging up dirt on his enemies in the Senate. He
   protested his innocence. Then his mistress was photographed for
   Playboy (in the same pose as Christine Keeler, a big-eyed brunette who
   ended the career of a British minister in 1963). Mrs Calheiros stood
   by her man. But on December 4th, moments before a crucial vote in the
   Senate ethics committee that would probably have ended his career, Mr
   Calheiros gave in.

   By resigning his presidency before the vote, Mr Calheiros holds on to
   his seat in the Senate. (Had he been censured, he would have been
   barred for eight years from running for office.) That outcome suits
   the government. Indeed, Mr Calheiros's resignation was probably
   negotiated with Lula's men. That is because government support for Mr
   Calheiros was seen as necessary to get through the Senate the renewal
   of the CPMF, a tax on financial transactions worth 30 billion-40
   billion reais ($17 billion-22 billion) a year.

   The twists of the Calheiros affair have nonetheless slowed the
   government down. Getting the CPMF approved has now become a matter of
   urgency. It is meant to be a provisional tax (and is therefore subject
   to periodic renewal). But it is also a constitutional measure,
   requiring a 60% majority. It always generates a tussle. This year the
   fight is particularly intense--so much so that Lula has cancelled his
   foreign trips next week so that he can stay in Brasília and twist
   arms.

   The president has formidable political instincts: one of his staffers,
   who also worked for Brazil's previous president, says that Lula "can
   just smell politics". But he does not expend much energy on managing
   his unwieldy coalition in the legislature. It does not help him that
   next year there will be municipal elections. Not all of the opposition
   parties, who have half the Senate seats, want to help swell government
   coffers before an election year.

   The main cause of the government's difficulties, though, springs from
   Brazil's recent success. Last month the country recorded a small
   current-account deficit, but overall the economic picture is rosy. In
   fact, tax revenues are so buoyant that the government is finding it
   hard to convince congressmen that it needs more money.

   One reason for this abundance is that the CPMF makes tax evasion
   harder, by giving the revenue service information on money moving
   between accounts. Nuno Camara of Dresdner Kleinwort, an investment
   bank, has calculated that the government's tax take has already
   surpassed its own estimates for 2008 by more than 30 billion reais,
   roughly equivalent to what it might expect to get from the CPMF. "If
   you compare the situation now with when we introduced this tax, things
   are completely different," says Paulo Renato Souza, a congressman for
   the opposition PSDB party and former education minister.

   For its part, the government is trying every legal method it can think
   of to get the tax renewed--including cutting its rate from 0.38% to
   0.3% over the next five years, and exempting low earners. The
   government has also revived a proposal to limit increases in
   government salaries to inflation plus 2.5%. "Brazil does need to lower
   its tax burden," says Aloizio Mercadante, a senator for the ruling PT,
   "but suddenly depriving the government of a main source of its revenue
   is not the way to do it."

   A smoother way to lower the government's future appetite for tax
   revenue would be to use money from the CPMF to reduce debt faster.
   Public debt, net of government assets, still stands at 43.5% of GDP.
   That figure is higher than the average for countries which enjoy the
   investment-grade credit rating to which Brazil aspires. Though less so
   than in the past, this debt is still expensive: the government pays a
   real interest rate of 7%. It is also relatively short-term: some 30%
   matures every year. Mr Calheiros's continued presence in the Senate,
   where he still has a great deal of influence, will probably make the
   passage of the CPMF easier. For the government, some good may yet come
   from his less than glorious career.


                                                            Peter Schrank

                               Peter Schrank

   Venezuela and Brazil battle quietly over the shape of a planned
   regional development bank


   THERE have been few more assiduous customers of the International
   Monetary Fund and the World Bank than Latin American governments. Even
   as they privately welcomed the economic rationality that comes with
   loans from the fund and the bank, the region's leaders often blamed
   them for unpopular but needed measures. So it is not surprising that
   many Latin Americans revile the two multilateral institutions. They
   see them as dominated by the United States, and as having imposed the
   "Washington consensus" of macroeconomic stability at the expense of
   other priorities.

   It is that sentiment that Hugo Chávez, Venezuela's leftist president,
   is trying to tap with his plan for a Banco del Sur (Bank of the
   South), a development bank funded and run by Latin American countries
   themselves. If all goes to plan, it will be formally launched next
   month, and could start operating next year. The preparatory talks
   involve Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, Ecuador and Paraguay as well as
   Venezuela.

   But there is a big difference between Mr Chávez's vision for the bank
   and that of others, especially Brazil. This will probably be papered
   over at a meeting in Rio de Janeiro on May 11th--but it just might
   develop into an open split between South America's two most powerful
   countries.

   Mr Chávez sees his bank as part of a wider anti-American political
   project and as an alternative to the IMF and the World Bank, from
   which he says Venezuela will withdraw. He has re-nationalised
   American-owned telecoms and electricity companies. He also threatens
   to pull out of the Organisation of American States if its sister body,
   the Inter-American Human Rights Court, condemns his government in a
   pending media-freedom case.

   It is one thing to badmouth the multilaterals but another to leave
   them, even for oil-rich Venezuela. Pulling out of the IMF would amount
   to a technical default on Venezuela's bonds and would raise the cost
   of future borrowing. Leaving the World Bank would tear up bilateral
   investment treaties that Venezuela has signed with other countries
   (and which use the bank's investment-dispute machinery).

   With the oil price high, Mr Chávez seems happy to alienate foreign
   investors. Others are not. Both Argentina and Brazil have taken
   advantage of economic growth and high commodity prices to pay off
   their debts to the IMF. Neither talks of leaving the fund. Bolivia's
   Evo Morales is one of Mr Chávez's closest disciples, but his finance
   minister says that joining the Bank of the South would not mean
   pulling out of the IMF.

   Ecuador's Rafael Correa shares Mr Chávez's ideas for the new bank. At
   a meeting of finance ministers in Quito earlier this month, he said it
   should combine the emergency-aid functions of the IMF with the project
   lending of the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank.

   But the ministers did not approve that proposal. They decided that the
   Bank of the South would be just a "development bank", adding that a
   stronger regional reserve fund (a small one already exists) might be
   created at a later stage. Brazil's finance minister, Guido Mantega,
   had already rejected the idea that the new bank might provide
   financial first-aid without the tough conditions the IMF imposes. He
   called for "modesty and parsimony" in any new body.

   After the meeting, Mr Mantega said that each country should contribute
   between $300m and $500m to the bank's capital. If so, no single
   country would dominate it, though a coalition of Mr Chávez's closest
   allies might. Brazil's contribution, Mr Mantega suggested, would come
   from the national development bank, the BNDES. The development
   minister, who controls the BNDES, promptly rejected the idea. Though
   Mr Mantega committed Brazil to the bank, the foreign ministry says the
   government is still "analysing" the idea.

   There are existing South American bodies that could serve as the
   nucleus for the new bank, including the Andean Development Corporation
   (CAF) and the Fund for the River Plate Basin (Fonplata). They are not
   political vehicles. Last year CAF lent over $5 billion. Its Bolivian
   chairman, Enrique García, has said he welcomes any fresh initiatives
   along the same lines. But many within CAF doubt that the Bank of the
   South is viable.

   The debate over the bank reflects a broader struggle for influence in
   South America between Brazil and Venezuela. Brazil's president, Luiz
   Inácio Lula da Silva, has a good relationship with George Bush, whom
   he has met twice in recent weeks. But he has always got along with Mr
   Chávez too, doing little to challenge the Venezuelan's pretensions to
   regional leadership. This friendship goes down well with many in
   Lula's Workers' Party, but it has made Brazil look indifferent to Mr
   Chávez's assaults on Venezuelan democracy.

   Recently, Brazil has distanced itself from Venezuela on some issues.
   In March its communications minister compared Venezuela's state
   television to Cuba's--the closest any Brazilian official has come to
   criticising the anti-democratic drift of Mr Chávez's rule. The two
   countries disagree about energy policy. Mr Chávez echoed Fidel Castro
   in attacking ethanol, just when Lula and Mr Bush agreed to encourage
   its production.

   Brazil's testiness with Venezuela has been sharpened by Bolivia's
   treatment of Petrobras, the state-owned energy firm. A year ago, egged
   on by Mr Chávez, Mr Morales "nationalised" oil and gas, forcing
   Petrobras to accept harsh new terms for its Bolivian operations. On
   May 6th Mr Morales issued a decree giving Bolivia's state-owned YPFB a
   monopoly of sales from Petrobras's two Bolivian refineries, in effect
   expropriating their cash flow. This time Brazil's government weighed
   in to condemn the property grab, giving warning that it could hurt
   relations between the two countries. Petrobras has issued an
   ultimatum: buy the two refineries for a fair price or face
   international arbitration.

   There is an "inflection" in Brazilian policy, with Lula drawing back
   from Venezuela and moving towards pragmatic governments in Chile and
   Peru, argues Sérgio Amaral, a former development minister. But, he
   adds, there are "clear limits" to this.

   These are defined partly by business interests. Brazil's exports to
   Venezuela rose by 60% last year. Brazilian multinationals are
   investing heavily. Odebrecht, a construction company, has built a new
   metro line in Caracas and a bridge over the Orinoco, and is building a
   $2.5 billion hydroelectric dam. Braskem, Odebrecht's petrochemicals
   arm, has a $3 billion partnership with state-owned Pequiven, which
   includes building two plants to produce plastic resins. Companhia Vale
   do Rio Doce is eyeing Venezuela's mineral riches.

   So although Brazil may either stall or moderate the plan for a Bank of
   the South, it is unlikely to reject it outright. But next time a
   financial crisis shakes Latin America, expect governments to turn
   again to the IMF rather than to Caracas.


   FARC rebels free two women hostages

   HELLISH tales of men chained to trees, debilitating diseases, and
   surgery carried out with a kitchen knife have emerged from Colombia's
   jungles with the release of two women held captive by leftist FARC
   rebels for the past six years. It is believed to be the first time
   hostages have been freed without any quid pro quo.

                                                                      AFP
                                                                      AFP

                                 Out of the jungle: grandmother Gonzáles 

   After a botched release attempt in December, Clara Rojas and Consuelo
   González de Perdomo were handed over to a Venezuelan-led commission on
   January 10th and flown to Caracas, the Venezuelan capital, to greet
   awaiting relatives and a beaming Hugo Chávez, Venezuela's president,
   who had brokered the deal.

   Colombians were gripped with horror mixed with fascination as the two
   former Colombian politicians recounted the ordeals they and their
   fellow captives had had to withstand. The 44-year-old Ms Rojas, who
   gave birth to a baby boy fathered by one of her captors in 2004,
   underwent a caesarean on a wooden table. The child, named Emmanuel,
   was taken from her eight months later. The FARC had promised to hand
   over the boy together with his mother and Ms González in December. But
   the mission was scrapped when it was discovered that the child had
   been living all along in foster care in Bogotá. Mother and son have
   now been reunited.

   The release of the two hostages was aimed at scoring a propaganda
   victory for Mr Chávez, who is regarded by the rebels as a kindred
   spirit. At the same time, evidence of the harsh conditions in the
   FARC's jungle prisons is designed to turn up the pressure on President
   Álvaro Uribe to secure the release of the 44 remaining high-profile
   hostages--including Ingrid Betancourt, a former presidential candidate
   with dual French-Colombian citizenship, and three American defence
   contractors--in exchange for hundreds of guerrillas jailed by Mr
   Uribe's government.

   However, Mr Chávez has already upped the ante, appealing to Colombia,
   other Latin American countries and Europe to stop labelling the FARC
   as a terrorist organisation and to classify it instead as a legitimate
   insurgent group. Most government leaders promptly rejected the idea
   out of hand. Daniel Ortega, Nicaragua's president and one-time rebel
   leader, is the only one to have supported it.

   The FARC have long sought political recognition in an attempt to
   downplay their criminal element, says Michael Shifter of a
   Washington-based think-tank, Inter-American Dialogue. They finance
   themselves largely through drug-trafficking and kidnapping for ransom.
   Just three days after the release of the two women, six tourists,
   including one foreigner, were kidnapped near the Pacific town of
   Nuqui.

   Mr Uribe now appears to be trying to call the FARC's bluff. If
   political status is what they want, he says, they will have to sit
   down and engage in a fully fledged peace process to end a conflict
   that has dragged on for four decades. If and when progress is made on
   that front, then Colombia's government "would be the first to stop
   calling them terrorists," he said.

   Proof of their continuing "terrorist" status could be found in the
   letters and photographs of eight of the remaining hostages, sent with
   the released women, Mr Uribe suggested. In a letter to his family,
   Luis Mendieta, a Colombian police officer, who has been held for
   nearly ten years, said his legs had become partially paralysed. "It's
   neither the physical pain nor the chains around my neck that torment
   me," he wrote. "It's the mental anguish."

   Although Mr Uribe may not like it, any deal with the FARC will almost
   certainly have to involve Mr Chávez despite the souring of relations
   between the two men. Last August Mr Uribe invited Mr Chávez to help
   broker a deal with the rebels, only to revoke his decision three
   months later. But when in December the FARC offered to free the two
   women into the hands of the Venezuelan leader, Mr Uribe grudgingly
   accepted. Mr Chávez now accuses Mr Uribe of being uninterested in
   peace, prompting Colombia's foreign minister to demand that the
   Venezuelan leader "cease his political aggression" toward Colombia.

   Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, who has made the release of Mrs
   Betancourt a priority, certainly feels it best to continue to curry
   favour with both men. In separate letters to them, he congratulated Mr
   Uribe for taking "courageous decisions" over the hostages, while
   praising Mr Chávez for his "imaginative and tenacious diplomatic
   action" in securing the release of the women.

   Despite continued tensions between the two presidents, Colombia is
   likely to be seeing rather more of Mr Chávez's imaginative diplomacy.


   For foreign policy, read relations


   CANADIANS knew little about Stephen Harper's foreign policy when his
   Conservative government took office last year, for the simple reason
   that he had not articulated one. They still don't know much. Since the
   election, foreign policy has been dominated by just one issue, that of
   Canadian troops in Afghanistan. Now perhaps they are about to be
   enlightened.

   On July 15th the prime minister is due to head south on a tour that
   will take him to Colombia, Chile, Barbados and Haiti. An odd choice,
   perhaps. The Canadian foreign-policy establishment, in tune with the
   previous Liberal government, likes to make much of the country's
   mission to help Africa. And going to Colombia, rather than say Mexico
   or Brazil, is a brave--or some might think odd--move when its
   president, Álvaro Uribe, is under attack in America and Europe for his
   alleged disregard for human rights.

   Mr Harper's answer is that Latin America is part of Canada's
   "neighbourhood". Two-way trade with the region is growing, and
   amounted to C$39 billion ($34 billion) last year--less than 5% of
   Canada's total trade but 15% of the portion that doesn't involve the
   United States. It is an important destination for Canadian investment,
   especially by mining firms. As for Colombia, Canadians buy its
   cocaine, and thus contribute to its human-rights problems. And Mr
   Harper's trip overlaps with a separate one by the governor-general,
   Michaëlle Jean, to Brazil.

   Some Canadians see Mr Harper's trip as part of his general desire to
   be in step with George Bush. The prime minister has made smooth
   relations with the United States a priority. Afghanistan has become
   the top recipient of Canadian aid. Mr Harper's government has given
   outspoken support to Israel; its relations with China have been
   strained. Nevertheless, this week Mr Harper announced plans to
   purchase up to eight patrol ships for light ice-breaking duties to
   assert Canadian sovereignty over Arctic seaways, which is contested by
   the United States.

   In fact, in much of this there is more continuity than change.
   Relations with Latin America have been getting closer since the
   signing of the North American Free-Trade Agreement with Mexico in
   1992. It was the Liberal government which deployed combat troops to
   Afghanistan; while it talked of a balanced policy in the Middle East
   it tended to take Israel's side when it counted. And few Canadian
   prime ministers have allowed all-important relations with their
   American neighbour to deteriorate.

   Perhaps the main innovation is plain speaking and the dropping of any
   pretence of an over-arching vision. Mr Harper's foreign-policy
   adviser, Roy Rempel, has argued that the myth of Canadians as the
   world's peacekeepers and do-gooders should yield to blunt
   considerations of national interest. Another interpretation is that Mr
   Harper has decided not to have a foreign policy, merely reacting to
   crises and opportunities as they arise.

   This, says Adam Chapnick, of the Canadian Forces College, is in
   keeping with an old Conservative tradition dating back to Canada's
   first prime minister, Sir John Macdonald. When trade relations with
   the United States were debated in the House of Commons, he apparently
   brought two speeches with him--one in support and one opposed--and
   then used the one that contradicted the Liberal stand.


   A rare welcome for foreign oil companies

   OTHER Andean countries, such as Venezuela, Ecuador and Bolivia, have
   all put the squeeze on foreign oil companies, with measures ranging
   from tough new contracts to outright expropriation. But Colombia is
   putting out the welcome mat.

   Colombia shares much of Venezuela's geology. But its oil output is
   smaller; the last big oil find was by BP at Cusiana in the 1980s.
   Having been a modest oil exporter for two decades, it faces becoming a
   net importer unless new discoveries are made. That prospect has
   prompted President Álvaro Uribe's government to intensify its
   predecessor's wooing of foreign oil companies. Colombia now offers
   "among the best fiscal terms in the world", says William Drennan of
   Exxon Mobil. These include a sliding scale of royalties varying with
   production and longer contract terms.

   A flurry of investment in exploration to the tune of $1.5 billion a
   year is starting to produce results. In 2006, for the first time in
   years, net oil reserves increased slightly, to 1.51 billion barrels. A
   decade ago, industry analysts expected Colombia to become a net oil
   importer by 2007. Now that date has been pushed back to 2011,
   according to a study by Arthur D. Little, a consultancy. If current
   levels of investment are maintained, Colombia should maintain its oil
   self-sufficiency at least until 2015, says Armando Zamora, the
   director of the National Hydrocarbons Agency.

   More than a dozen foreign companies are now looking for oil in
   Colombia. At the same time, Ecopetrol, the state-owned oil company, is
   operating in a more commercial fashion. It plans to offer 20% of its
   shares (worth perhaps $3 billion) to private investors. It has joined
   forces with Petrobras, a like-minded state oil firm, to explore a
   small field in Brazil.

   Having got itself back on the oil map, Colombia hopes to be able to
   strike a harder bargain. Later this year it will auction contracts to
   explore offshore in the Caribbean. They will go to the companies that
   offer the government the biggest production share. Now all that is
   needed is another Cusiana.


   Women's prominence in politics is not reflected in policies


   AT FIRST glance, Argentina looks almost like a matriarchy. Not only is
   Cristina Fernández the first woman to be elected as its president, but
   her nearest challenger in October's election was another woman, Elisa
   Carrió. Under a 1991 law, 30% of the candidates on party lists for
   Congress must be women, a proportion more than reflected in the
   make-up of its lower house. Argentina's best-known human-rights
   campaigners--the mothers and grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo--have
   also been women.

   That seems like quite a change for a country long notorious for the
   machismo of gauchos and the tango, or of Carlos Menem and Diego
   Maradona. Ms Fernández makes much of her friendship with another Latin
   American woman president, Chile's Michelle Bachelet. But Ms Bachelet
   did not owe her job to a prominent husband. For Argentine women the
   best route to the political summit is still to be a Peronist wife.

   The tradition began with Eva Duarte, a jobbing actress who became the
   nation's patron saint through marriage to Juan Perón and her agitation
   for women and the poor. Perón's third wife, María Estela
   ("Isabelita"), a former nightclub dancer, briefly succeeded him as
   president during Argentina's murderous 1970s. In legislative elections
   in 2005, Ms Fernández defeated another Peronist wife, Hilda González
   de Duhalde, in a race for a Senate seat in Buenos Aires province; that
   was a proxy victory for her husband, Néstor Kirchner, against his
   predecessor and former sponsor, Eduardo Duhalde.

   But the prominence of women in politics has not led to feminist
   policies. Proposals for equal pay and abortion have got nowhere. "We
   have to implement our values," says María Eugenia Estenssoro, a
   senator. "Being a woman is not just about skirts. It's about vision."
   Demonstrating that might be one way in which Ms Fernández can show who
   is boss in the presidential palace.


   Mark Steyn and the thought police

   FOR much of the past century Maclean's, Canada's main newsweekly, has
   been as colourless as its name. But since early 2005, when slumping
   sales prompted a management overhaul, it has become livelier and more
   provocative. Too provocative, it seems, for some Canadians.

   One of its star attractions is Mark Steyn, a columnist who is a
   sparkling, often side-splittingly funny writer and, by his own
   admission, "a Zionist neocon Bush shill". Some readers added
   "Islamophobe" after Maclean's published an alarmist screed by Mr Steyn
   in October 2006 predicting, among other things, that Europe was
   becoming a "Eurabia" overrun by Muslim hordes, intent on jihad and
   sharia.

   The piece, an excerpt from Mr Steyn's book "America Alone: The End Of
   The World As We Know It", was notable for its simplistic demographic
   projections--Yemen (population 22m) will outnumber Russia (141m) by
   mid-century, he wrote confidently--and for the reaction it generated.
   Maclean's published 27 letters, many of complaint. That was not enough
   for some offended Muslims. Last spring a group of Toronto law students
   marched into the magazine's offices demanding equal space for a
   rebuttal by an author of their choosing. Ken Whyte, the editor and
   publisher, told the group he would rather see Maclean's go bankrupt.

   Last month the students and the Canadian Islamic Congress (CIC), a
   lobby group, filed complaints against Maclean's at the Canadian Human
   Rights Commission, as well as those of Ontario and British Columbia.
   The article, the CIC claimed, harmed Muslims' "sense of dignity and
   self-worth".

   Their choice of forum has brought protests. The criminal code has
   hate-propaganda provisions, but using these requires convincing a
   prosecutor. The bar is much lower for Human Rights Commissions and
   their tribunals. These were set up to deal with discrimination on
   grounds such as race or sex in jobs, housing or services. Even the man
   who inspired them, Alan Borovoy, a civil-liberties lawyer, is dismayed
   at their misuse to limit free speech. The tribunals can only levy
   small fines and give an order to desist. But the proceedings involve
   steep costs for defendants, whereas plaintiffs pay nothing if the
   commission decides there are grounds to proceed.

   Much of Canada's press and many broadcasters are already noted for
   politically correct blandness. Some fear that the case can only make
   that worse. Mr Steyn and others hope it will prompt a narrower brief
   for the commissions, or even their abolition. As he put it in his
   blog, "I don't want to get off the hook. I want to take the hook and
   stick it up the collective butt of these thought police."


   Two presidents seek a hostage deal

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                               The Betancourts have the ear of the Elysée


   FOR most of his nearly five years as Colombia's president, Álvaro
   Uribe has rejected any deal with the FARC guerrillas for a prisoner
   swap to secure the release of some 60 prominent hostages. So why has
   he suddenly freed nearly 200 FARC prisoners, including Rodrigo Granda,
   one of its leaders?

   Colombians, most of whom support Mr Uribe's tough security policies,
   are baffled. The FARC called the move a "farce". Even more farcically,
   Mr Granda protested against his own release. The FARC insists that it
   will free its hostages, who include Ingrid Betancourt, a former
   presidential candidate seized in 2002, only after a negotiation to be
   held in an area from which the government would withdraw its troops.
   Though Mr Uribe has sometimes wavered on this, he again rejected it
   this week.

   The explanation for Mr Uribe's behaviour probably lies in his
   desperate need for friends abroad. Though he has made Colombia much
   safer, the Democrats who control the United States' Congress criticise
   his government's human-rights record. The president arrived in
   Washington, DC, on June 6th for his second lobbying trip in a month.
   Earlier, a congressional sub-committee voted to cut proposed aid to
   Colombia of some $700m by 10% and shift much of it from military to
   social programmes. The Democrats are also refusing to ratify a
   free-trade agreement with Colombia.

   Mr Uribe's opponents say the prisoner release is to pave the way for a
   controversial proposal to free a dozen pro-government legislators
   jailed on suspicion of links with right-wing paramilitaries. But Mr
   Uribe said he had freed Mr Granda, whose seizure in Venezuela three
   years ago caused a diplomatic row, at the request of Nicolas Sarkozy,
   France's new president.

   Mr Sarkozy's office said that he hoped that Mr Granda's release could
   help free the hostages. Ms Betancourt is a minor figure in Colombia
   but an iconic one in France, where she studied. She has dual
   citizenship and two French children. A vast portrait of her hangs from
   the façade of Paris's town hall. When foreign minister in 2003,
   Dominique de Villepin, her former professor, sent a crack team to
   rescue her; their mission was embarrassingly aborted in Brazil.

   Since his election, Mr Sarkozy has taken up her case with vigour,
   twice inviting her children to the Elysée Palace. Liberating Ms
   Betancourt would be a spectacular political coup for a president whose
   action-man style marks a break with the era of Jacques Chirac and who
   faces two-round legislative elections on June 10th and 17th.

   At what price, though? French diplomats insist they merely want to
   "facilitate" a "humanitarian exchange", and that they are not
   negotiating directly with the FARC, which is listed by Europe and the
   United States as a terrorist organisation. "We do not consider that we
   are breaching our principles," said one diplomat. That may not impress
   Colombians, who watched as the FARC kidnapped a police commander and
   two others this week.


   In our story on Panama ("[3]Glitter and Graft", July 19th) we said
   that COSCO, China's government-owned shipping operator, was competing
   to build a mega-port on the Caribbean coast. In fact it is on Panama's
   Pacific coast. In last week's story on Brazil ("[4]Extinct, or just
   adapting?") we said that Ciro Gomes's wife is a senator. She is not;
   his former wife is. These errors have been corrected online.


   A popular president deadlocked by a determined opposition

                                                                  Reuters
                                                                  Reuters

                                Morales, all dressed-up but going nowhere


   DEADLINES have come and gone but after 15 months of deliberations an
   elected Constituent Assembly seems nowhere near agreeing the text of a
   new constitution for Bolivia. That is a matter of growing frustration
   for the supporters of President Evo Morales, who set up the assembly.
   He promised that the new constitution would enshrine the rights of
   Bolivians of Andean Indian descent to land and autonomy, and uphold a
   socialist economy with state control over national resources.

   But the assembly has become deadlocked, reflecting Bolivia's political
   divide. Although the mountainous and mainly-Indian west is solidly
   behind Mr Morales, the commercially-minded, whiter lowland east is
   bitterly opposed to him. The president's supporters in the Movement to
   Socialism (MAS) have a majority, but not the two-thirds required to
   impose their text. So the opposition has been able to stall the
   assembly.

   Behind all the constitutional verbiage the main dispute is over money.
   Bolivia's natural-gas deposits are in the opposition-controlled east.
   The opposition wants the new constitution to uphold regional autonomy
   and guarantee its regional governments a large chunk of gas royalties.
   Indigenous leaders want similar autonomy, but the government wants to
   secure greater central control of gas revenues.

   Last month similar tensions surfaced in a dispute over whether
   airports should be run locally or from the centre. This culminated in
   Mr Morales sending the army to secure the country's busiest airport,
   in the eastern city of Santa Cruz. When that triggered mass protests
   in the city, the president backed down.

   Mr Morales then promptly announced a big cut in transfers of gas
   revenues to regional governments in order to pay--and increase by a
   third--an annuity received by all Bolivians aged over 60. This was
   originally paid, only to those over 65, out of the dividends from the
   government's shares in privatised hydrocarbons companies. But Mr
   Morales transferred these shares to the revived state oil company as
   part of his scheme to renationalise the industry. The increase in the
   annuity is popular: indeed, the president led a celebratory march by
   pensioners through Santa Cruz.

   The new constitution has also become hostage to an unexpected source
   of opposition. The assembly sits in Sucre, a small central city which
   is the seat of the judiciary and was the capital until displaced by La
   Paz more than a century ago. Sucre wants its status restored. Ugly
   protests in the city prompted the assembly in September to suspend its
   public sessions. The government is seeking alternative venues.

   Despite his radical talk, Mr Morales has a pragmatic streak derived
   from his years as leader of a trade union of coca workers. His
   vice-president, Álvaro García Linera, spent October negotiating
   tentative agreements with the opposition on the autonomy question and
   on the constitution's economic chapters. On paper, it is not hard to
   see a compromise in which the opposition accepts Mr Morales's desire
   to be allowed to run for a second consecutive term in return for
   guarantees of regional autonomy and a deal on money.

   But the opposition remains suspicious of Mr Morales's intentions. Its
   leaders are alarmed by his close friendship with Venezuela's socialist
   president, Hugo Chávez. Venezuela has become a big aid donor.
   Venezuelan lawyers are reported to be drafting government decrees.
   According to television pictures broadcast by an opposition station,
   the troops who took over Santa Cruz airport included at least two in
   Venezuelan uniforms.

   The latest deadline for the assembly to agree the constitutional text
   is December 14th. Few involved on either side will bet on agreement
   being reached. But Mr Morales remains popular: polls suggest he has
   the support of at least 60% of Bolivians. One way or another he seems
   likely to get his way--or most of it--in the end.


   Why Brazil is better placed than it used to be to cope with a world
   slowdown

                                                           Agencia Estado

                               Agencia Estado

   BRAZILIANS know about economic and financial crises. The squalls
   afflicting America and threatening Europe look like a gentle breeze
   when compared with the frequent and violent blow-ups that litter
   Brazil's economic history. Much of the problem has been Brazil's
   vulnerability to shocks imported from around the rest of the globe. So
   what might happen if the economies in the rich world stumble again
   this year?

   Recent precedents do not look good. Since the introduction of a new
   currency, the real, in 1994, which serves as the year zero for
   economic policy, growth has picked up to a reasonable rate three
   times. Each time, points out Eduardo Giannetti da Fonseca, an
   economist, people have speculated that Brazil was at last on the road
   to a bright new future. And each time something has come along to
   puncture this optimism: in 1998 it was the Asian financial crisis, in
   2001 Argentina's bond default and in 2005 a rapid rise in inflation.

   Now bullishness is abundant once again. The economy grew at an
   estimated annualised rate of 6% in the final quarter of last year
   (which is probably too fast). The Bovespa, Brazil's stockmarket,
   jumped by 60% in value during 2007. And yet even though recent history
   counsels caution, there are reasons to believe that the economy should
   cope better with whatever the world throws at it.

   "Brazil has never been so well placed to face a downturn," says
   Mailson da Nobrega, finance minister from 1988 to 1990, a period that
   coincided with an inflation crisis. He now works for Tendencias, a
   consultancy. Arminio Fraga, who was in charge of the central bank
   during the Argentine collapse and the bond market's swoon at the
   prospect of Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva's election as president,
   cautiously agrees. "A lot has been driven by favourable winds," says
   Mr Fraga, who now runs Gavea, an investment fund. "If they stop then
   we are not in a position to blow up, but it won't be irrelevant."

   What changed? First, domestic demand is strong. Brazil's headline real
   interest rate is just below 7% which, as Alexandre Bassoli of HSBC
   bank points out, would tip most countries into recession, but is low
   by Brazilian standards. The result has been a flowering of credit,
   which helped domestic demand grow by an annualised rate of almost 7%
   in the third quarter. It would take a sharp rise in rates to kill this
   off, and that looks unlikely.

   Second, Brazil is fairly well integrated into world markets. It is not
   overly dependent on America, which accounts for less than a fifth of
   exports. The remaining four-fifths are reasonably well spread between
   Europe, Asia and the rest of Latin America. Admittedly, most of what
   Brazil produces for foreign consumption is in the form of primary
   goods (from orange juice to footballers), which means that export
   growth correlates strongly with commodity prices. But exports are not
   made up of any single commodity (unlike oil-rich Venezuela's, for
   example). "Even if China buys less Brazilian iron ore, the hope is
   that Chinese people will keep eating Brazilian protein," says Jose
   Mendonca de Barros of MB Associados, a consultancy.

   Third, Brazil is less vulnerable to financial shocks than it once was.
   A large part of this is due to a combination of a central bank that
   acts independently and transparently, publishing minutes of meetings
   promptly on its website; and a floating exchange rate, adopted in
   1999. Before then, whenever the current account deteriorated, the
   central bank was forced to hike rates, killing growth.

   Brazil has retired its dollar-denominated debt, which has been a
   source of trouble in earlier financial crises. In the past, when the
   currency depreciated this debt ballooned, causing further problems.
   Now that government debt is denominated in reais, a similar move in
   the exchange rate reduces government liabilities. This was tested in
   August last year, when the real lost 11% of its value in a couple of
   weeks, and the government debt effectively shrank. Foreign direct
   investment is strong, and Brazil now holds more dollars than it owes,
   a happy development that has led to misguided suggestions of setting
   up a sovereign wealth fund.

   Even so, Brazil is clearly far from immune to what happens in the rest
   of the world. The economy also seems to be moving into a less benign
   phase. After years of big surpluses, the current account looks set to
   run a small deficit this year. Inflation, which had been falling,
   picked up toward the end of last year to give an annual inflation rate
   in December of 4.5%. That is right on the central bank's target, and
   forecasters expect inflation to increase only slightly this year. But
   markets have been wrong on this before.

   Moreover, the economy still suffers from problems that make growth
   above 5% look like a stretch. Government debt is still too high,
   Brazil invests too little, and the government takes too much for
   itself, spending it on things that do little to raise the economy's
   potential. "The easy part of growth is over," says Mr da Fonseca. But
   if Brazil is able to sustain steady growth without being blown
   off-course by events elsewhere, the country will look very different
   in ten years' time.


   The political vendetta behind another nationalisation


   IT IS becoming a familiar ritual. On February 9th Evo Morales,
   Bolivia's socialist president, flanked by troops, stood in front of
   the Vinto tin smelter and declared it nationalised. Last May he did
   the same to his country's natural-gas industry. In October he said it
   was the turn of mining. Yet with Mr Morales, whose rallying cry is
   "Bolivian resources for the Bolivian people", sometimes the symbolism
   and the rhetoric is more ambitious than the reality.

   So it was with natural gas, where he later signed new, tougher
   contracts with multinationals. The threat to nationalise mining
   quickly changed to a proposal to raise taxes on private mining
   companies. And even that was watered down after 20,000 members of
   mining co-operatives marched on La Paz earlier this month.

   Vinto, officials claim, is a special case. "It's about righting a
   wrong," says Guillermo Dalence, the mining minister. "The plant was
   taken from the Bolivian people fraudulently and we are reclaiming it."

   The smelter has a controversial history. Built by a military
   government, it was privatised in 1999. The buyer was Allied Deals, a
   British outfit later liquidated after its directors were charged with
   fraud over an unrelated scam in the metals market.

   Allied Deals paid $27m for the smelter and the nearby Huanuni mine. In
   2002 its liquidator sold Vinto for $6m to a consortium headed by
   Comsur, a mining company owned by Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada, Bolivia's
   president from 1993-97. Mr Sánchez de Lozada (known to Bolivians as
   Goni) was elected again in 2002, but was toppled a year later by
   protesters who included supporters of Mr Morales.

   Goni is a hate figure in Bolivia today. That is partly because 67
   people were killed when he called out the army against the protests in
   2003. The government is backing moves to extradite him from the United
   States to face a trial which the former president's lawyers say is
   politically motivated. But Goni is also hated because he oversaw the
   privatisations that Mr Morales is now trying to reverse.

   In 2005 Goni sold Comsur's Bolivian assets (which included several
   mines) to Glencore, a mining company based in Switzerland. The price
   was not disclosed, but it was said to be $220m, of which $90m was said
   to be for the smelter. According to one well-placed source, a
   side-letter required Comsur to repay Glencore in the case of
   nationalisation.

   Since the world tin price was very low when Vinto was privatised, and
   the smelter had lost money in state hands, it is far from clear that
   Bolivia was swindled. The tin price has since risen sharply, reaching
   its highest level since 1985 this week. So in addition to targeting
   Goni, the nationalisation may boost government revenues.

   Glencore is demanding compensation for the smelter. It says the
   seizure violates a 1991 bilateral investment treaty between Bolivia
   and Switzerland. The government says it, too, will seek compensation
   in any international arbitration. It claims that Glencore did not
   register the purchase in Bolivia and, somewhat improbably, that the
   smelter was worth $140m when it was privatised. "All foreign companies
   that operate within the legal framework have our guarantee that they
   won't be touched," says Mr Dalence. Investors may not be wholly
   reassured.


   The president enlists the literary critics


   ASK Chileans what they are reading and the answer will probably be
   Isabel Allende's "La Suma de los Días", a memoir by their country's
   best-known living writer. If, that is, they read anything at all: in a
   recent survey, 45% said they never read books and 34% did so only
   occasionally.

   Michelle Bachelet, Chile's president, wants to change that. To do so,
   she has come up with a scheme to give 400,000 of the poorest families
   a maletín literario or box of up to nine books each. After much
   pencil-chewing, a jury of literati this month selected a list of 49
   works, from which officials will then choose those books they think
   appropriate for each family (each will get an encyclopaedia and/or a
   dictionary).

   The list comprises fiction and poetry for both adults and children. It
   ranges from Chile's Ms Allende and Pablo Neruda to J.D. Salinger's
   "The Catcher in the Rye" and Franz Kafka's "Metamorphosis". This is
   unexceptionable fare. But is the book box the best way to achieve Ms
   Bachelet's laudable aim?

   It could help. While some older Chileans lack functional literacy or
   were alienated by a rigid school syllabus, younger ones may be
   deterred from buying books by their price. This averages $14, higher
   than the Latin American average and the equivalent of two weeks of bus
   fares to and from work in Santiago. If books were cheaper, more
   Chileans would read them: pirated copies sell on pavements, while a
   lending library that operates on the Santiago metro has been a big
   success. With massive orders, the government could force big discounts
   from publishers.

   But critics see the book box as a populist gesture. "It's like
   dropping bank notes out of the sky," complains Verónica Abud of La
   Fuente, a charity that promotes reading. "Who says that a plumber in a
   poor district of Santiago will actually want to read Kafka?" For less
   than the estimated $11m cost of the book box, La Fuente has set up 60
   libraries in schools and neighbourhoods. Since only 7% of Chileans
   belong to a library, there is scope for plenty more.


                                                                      EPA

                                    EPA

   After four years in which he transformed his country, Álvaro Uribe is
   running into problems. Some of them are symptoms of success 


   ON THE outskirts of María la Baja, a nondescript town on Colombia's
   swelteringly hot Caribbean coast, the road is lined with palm-thatched
   mud huts. They are the new homes of some 7,000 people displaced by
   violence from their small farms in the nearby hills. They say that
   their problems began when the guerrillas of the Revolutionary Armed
   Forces of Colombia (FARC) appeared in the hills in 2000, stealing
   their cattle. Matters deteriorated further when right-wing
   paramilitaries began to kill people whom they thought were guerrillas
   and forced others to sell or yield their land at gunpoint.

   But in the past couple of years "things have improved a lot," says
   Carlos Ortiz, one of their leaders. The reason: on July 14th 2005, the
   local paramilitary group handed over its weapons and disbanded under a
   peace agreement with the government of President Álvaro Uribe in which
   some 30,000 of the militiamen have demobilised across the country. As
   part of Mr Uribe's security build-up, marines have set up a base on
   the edge of the town, while police patrol the main road north to the
   port of Cartagena.

   "We go back to our farms by day now," says Julio César Azeredo,
   another of the displaced. But, he adds, "it's not safe to stay at
   night." If this corner of northern Colombia is no longer marked by the
   bloody massacres of a few years ago, its new-found peace is fragile.
   "The people have lost confidence in everyone, they don't trust any
   authority," says Giuseppe Svafrena, an Italian Catholic priest who is
   helping them.

   Fragile it may be, but the improvement in security in places like
   María la Baja is real enough. On the strength of it, Mr Uribe secured
   a second four-year term with a landslide 62% of the vote in an
   election last May. But his second term is proving to be more
   complicated than his first.

   Mr Uribe faces two immediate problems. One involves the future of the
   former paramilitaries, and the risk that many return to violent crime.
   The other involves their past: the government has been rocked by a
   series of revelations of links between politicians, officials and the
   paramilitaries. Those revelations (dubbed "parapolitics") risk doing
   serious damage to Mr Uribe's standing abroad, and especially in the
   United States. But for most Colombians the more pressing issue is
   consolidating the gains in security. In opinion polls some 70% of
   respondents continue to support Mr Uribe, despite the parapolitics
   scandal. To understand why requires some recent history.

   During the 1980s and 1990s, the left-wing guerrillas of the FARC and
   its smaller rival, the ELN, grew steadily, reaching a peak of almost
   20,000 troops. Their expansion owed much to money from drugs,
   kidnapping and extortion. They were also helped by Colombia's
   impossible geography and relatively weak state. The flip side of a
   long democratic tradition has been that Colombia's politicians never
   allowed the army to become strong.

   In response, some army commanders and landowners formed paramilitary
   militias (known as "self-defence" groups) to fight the guerrillas. Yet
   some of these were quickly taken over by drug-traffickers and many
   imposed a reign of terror equal to or worse than that of the
   guerrillas. Colombia began to look like a failed state. That prompted
   Andrés Pastrana, Mr Uribe's predecessor, to start to strengthen the
   security forces and to seek American aid.

   Mr Uribe was elected on a pledge to get tough after the FARC had shown
   no interest in peace in three years of talks with Mr Pastrana. He has
   expanded the security forces by a third, adding 60,000 troops and
   30,000 extra police. He placed permanent police detachments in 150
   municipalities (out of a total of 1,080) that lacked them. He created
   a new force of 20,000 part-time "popular soldiers" for local guard
   duties. Six new mountain battalions occupied the high Andean massifs
   which had served as corridors and refuges for the FARC. He turned the
   army into an offensive force, with nine new mobile brigades.

   All this changed the course of the war. The FARC were driven from
   central Colombia, from the populated triangle marked by its three main
   cities, Bogotá, Medellín and Cali. For the first time in years,
   Colombians can drive between most of the country's cities without risk
   of kidnap or hold-up. Partly as a result, the economy has rebounded as
   businesses from oil companies to manufacturers ramp up investment (see
   chart). "My administration began the process of taking back the
   country," Mr Uribe says.

   This security build-up and Mr Uribe's reputation as an implacable foe
   of the guerrillas enabled his government to persuade the
   paramilitaries, grouped in the United Self-Defence Forces of Colombia
   (AUC), to disarm. They did so under a controversial Justice and Peace
   Law. This stipulates that those accused of massacres or other
   barbarous acts can benefit from a reduced sentence (of no more than
   eight years) if they confess and surrender illegally obtained assets.
   The biggest incentive is that the government will not extradite them
   to face drugs charges in the United States as long as they co-operate.

   This peace process has been highly controversial. One set of
   criticisms concerns its terms and another its implementation. Many
   human-rights groups, the paramilitaries' victims and much of the
   opposition considered the law too lenient and its application too lax.
   So did the Constitutional Court, which stiffened the law.

   Only last August were the top leaders jailed pending court hearings.
   Rafael Pardo, a Liberal senator who broke with the president over the
   law, says that he thinks the paramilitaries have demobilised their
   counter-insurgency apparatus and moved out of drugs to avoid
   extradition but are moving, unchecked, into other crime rackets.

   Double standards

   Mr Uribe's defenders argue that Colombia is doing something which no
   other country has managed. "It's a peace process with an undefeated
   military group in which justice is being applied with no amnesty,"
   says Eduardo Pizarro, who heads the government's reconciliation
   commission. Mr Uribe accuses his critics of double standards, since
   they never complained about (and some benefited from) past peace talks
   with guerrillas in which total amnesties were offered.

   But the process is certainly a messy one. The attorney-general's
   office--a branch of the judiciary rather than the executive in
   Colombia--has been swamped. A special unit of 35 attorneys has been
   set up, but it needs more staff and resources. Some 25,000 people have
   registered as victims of the paramilitaries. Mario Iguarán, the
   attorney-general, says that charges may eventually be brought against
   up to 400 of the leaders; he hopes to begin cases against 57 jailed
   chiefs this year.

   The government's scheme to integrate the former paramilitaries into
   civilian life has been flawed. They receive a monthly stipend of up to
   358,000 pesos ($162), but two-thirds of them have yet to receive
   promised training and only two-fifths have jobs. The government did
   the demobilisations "with a system which was only just being created
   and the system collapsed," says Frank Pearl, whom Mr Uribe recruited
   from the private sector last year to sort out the programme.

   The big fear is that many will return to violence. The best estimates
   are that between 2,500 and 3,600 have joined "second-generation"
   paramilitary groups. But officials say that some of these are
   drug-trafficking outfits or purely criminal bands.

   For all its flaws, Colombia's peace process has quickly acquired a
   momentum of its own. One of the strongest signs of that is the
   parapolitics scandal. This began when police arrested a paramilitary
   leader who had failed to rendezvous in a designated area, confiscating
   his computer. This contained a treasure trove of information
   concerning the political contacts of the paramilitaries, who once
   boasted that they controlled a third of Colombia's Congress.

   The revelations are an embarrassment to Mr Uribe. The ten politicians
   (nine legislators and a provincial governor) so far arrested, all from
   the north coast, belong to parties that support him. But most of the
   allegations against them date from 2002, when they backed the official
   Liberal candidate against Mr Uribe, who ran as an independent. More
   damaging is the arrest of Jorge Noguera, whom the president named to
   head the intelligence service.

   Mr Uribe's critics have seized on all this to argue that the president
   is in cahoots with the paramilitaries. But there is no evidence. The
   president counters that he has supported judicial investigations and
   full confessions by the paramilitaries. "The country needs to know in
   depth the tragedy...to realise what is the future we need: a country
   of institutions, without guerrillas, paramilitaries, drug-traffickers
   and corruption," he said in an interview with The Economist. If Mr
   Noguera is found guilty, Mr Uribe promises to apologise.

   That the parapolitics investigations have got so far is in part a
   result of greater security. "Witnesses are coming forward because they
   do not have to fear," says Mr Iguarán. "Who would have dared before to
   go to the district attorney or the judge and declare that the chief of
   the AUC was in league with the government, the mayor or a congressman?
   It's an unanticipated consequence of the Justice and Peace Law."

   It also shows how widespread penetration of politics and government by
   the paramilitaries was. Officials are quietly attempting a similar
   clean-up of the armed forces. A decorated colonel was charged before
   the civilian courts last year after subordinates said that he passed
   off murdered civilians as dead guerrillas. The defence minister, Juan
   Manuel Santos, is easing out other officers and working on reforms of
   military training. He says that control of territory, rather than
   bodycount, will henceforth be the army's performance criterion.

   Colombia is only at the beginning of a long and difficult road to
   peace. Cleaning up the army is a necessary condition for vanquishing
   the paramilitaries completely, argues Alejandro Reyes, a sociologist
   at Bogotá's Rosario university. "Otherwise the civilian population
   won't collaborate with the security forces."

   Such collaboration is vital. The FARC are diminished but unbeaten.
   They think history is going their way: Hugo Chávez in Venezuela has
   expressed sympathy for them in the past; so has Rafael Correa,
   Ecuador's new president. It will take more fighting to persuade them
   to negotiate, let alone submit to the Justice and Peace Law.

   And parapolitics risks weakening Mr Uribe's grip on Congress. A tax
   reform that would have raised government revenues has been watered
   down. The government did manage to renew a wealth tax which should
   provide $4 billion over the next four years. That money will go into
   more helicopters, and surveillance gear to try to track down the FARC
   leadership.

   The other task is to achieve lasting security in places like María la
   Baja. There Pedro Vásquez, a former policeman who spent seven years as
   a paramilitary leader, says that townspeople still come to him to
   complain of crimes and extortion "because they don't trust the
   police". Some of his former troops want to return to action, something
   he doesn't want to do.

   Carlos Gaviria of the centre-left Democratic Pole, Mr Uribe's defeated
   opponent in last year's election, says more is needed than just the
   presence of the army. The state should be present, too, with "schools,
   hospitals and job-creation".

   Colombia's peace process has hitherto relied on the driving will of
   the president, a workaholic whose face is grey with permanent fatigue.
   Lacking are teamwork and institutions. Luis Alfonso Hoyos, who heads
   the president's social-development agency, points proudly to a
   situation-room next to his office where representatives from 13
   ministries co-ordinate policy and action. But that is in Bogotá, a
   long way from places like María la Baja.


   Exporting medicine and influence

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

            A miracle of Cuban know-how and Venezuelan oil money


   IT MAY be the world's largest medical college. The Latin American
   School of Medical Science, on the western edge of Havana, has 10,000
   students, making it nearly ten times the size of its largest
   equivalent in the United States. The students are all foreigners: most
   are from elsewhere in Latin America, but they include 91 Americans.
   The school is one of several ways in which communist Cuba is using its
   medical prowess to win friends abroad.

   That prowess has been questioned by some of the regime's opponents
   because of unofficial reports that Fidel Castro, Cuba's president, has
   undergone three failed operations for diverticulitis (a swelling of
   the wall of the intestine). But there is as yet no reason to blame the
   president's doctors for his health problems.

   The medical school was founded in 1998. Only two classes have so far
   graduated from its six-year programme. Its buildings are not imposing;
   many of its students are dispersed on satellite campuses around Cuba.
   But tuition, accommodation and board are all free.

   The school is only one aspect of Cuba's commitment to exporting
   medicine. Another is the deployment of Cuban doctors overseas.
   Hundreds were sent to Central America in the aftermath of hurricanes
   and other natural disasters in the 1990s. More than 15,000 doctors and
   dentists are working for Hugo Chávez's government in Venezuela, in a
   Cuban-designed family-doctor programme. Others have been sent to
   Bolivia, to support Evo Morales's government, and to Ecuador. More may
   go to Nicaragua, and to Ecuador: both countries recently elected
   presidents friendly to Mr Castro. Farther afield, Pakistan's prime
   minister this month singled out Cuban doctors for their help after a
   2005 earthquake which killed some 74,000 people.

   In all, about one in three of Cuba's doctors is working abroad at any
   given time, according to Daniel Erikson of the Inter-American
   Dialogue, a think-tank in Washington, DC. At the same time, increasing
   numbers of foreigners are coming to Cuba for operations. This began as
   a foreign-exchange earner in the 1990s. More recently, Mr Chávez and
   Mr Castro set up "Operation Miracle", a scheme under which Venezuela
   pays for thousands of poor Latin Americans to undergo cataract and
   other eye operations in Cuba.

   This medical diplomacy brings Cuba clout abroad but it causes grumbles
   at home. Cuba has two and a half times as many doctors per head as the
   United States. Even so, with so many working abroad, some clinics in
   Havana are understaffed and others have closed. Drugs and medical
   equipment are in short supply in the island's hospitals, say the
   medical students. That is something that Mr Castro's successors may
   face pressure to redress.


   In our story about mining in Bolivia ("[3]Tin soldiers," February
   17th), we referred to the sale of assets by Comsur, a company owned by
   Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada, the country's former president, to
   Glencore. We quoted a source as saying that a side-letter required
   Comsur to repay Glencore in the case of nationalisation of the assets.
   This information was false. We apologise for this mistake.


                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   The president's wife seems certain to succeed him, but will she cool
   an overheating economy?


   ABROAD she is sometimes compared to Hillary Clinton. At home she likes
   to invoke Eva Perón. Either way, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner seems
   certain to win Argentina's presidential election on October 28th, and
   thus to succeed her husband, Néstor Kirchner. If the polls are to be
   believed, she will win by a large enough margin to avoid the need for
   a run-off ballot (see chart 1).

   If so, she will become the first woman to be elected as Argentina's
   president. (Isabelita, Juan Perón's third wife and his vice-president,
   briefly succeeded her husband before being ousted by a military coup
   in 1976.) She likes to point out that she has been a senator since
   1995 and so was a national political figure when her husband was a
   mere provincial governor. But assuming she wins, she will owe her
   victory to his--or their--decision that he would not seek a second
   consecutive term and that she would run in his stead.

   Mr Kirchner has presided over Argentina's vigorous recovery from a
   horrendous economic, financial and political collapse in 2001-02.
   Thanks to four years of annual economic growth of over 8%, poverty and
   unemployment have halved since he took office in 2003 (see chart 2).
   For that, the president can take only some of the credit. He inherited
   a capable economy minister in Roberto Lavagna, who had put in place
   some coherent policies. Idle factories whirred back into action while
   world prices climbed for Argentina's farm exports.

   But Mr Kirchner's brutal treatment of holders of some $81 billion in
   bonds on which Argentina defaulted in 2001 ensured that debt payments
   did not become a drag on growth. He quelled a riotous movement of
   unemployed protesters with a mixture of handouts and diatribes against
   the IMF, big business and the privatisations conducted by Carlos
   Menem, a right-wing Peronist, in the 1990s.

   After winning control of Congress in a mid-term election in 2005, Mr
   Kirchner dumped the prudent Mr Lavagna. Since then, he has
   deliberately allowed the economy to overheat. Interest rates are
   negative in real terms, while the government has opened the fiscal tap
   (so far this year central-government current spending has risen by an
   eyepopping 48% in nominal terms). As a result, inflation is rising
   fast.

   The government has responded with price "agreements" (ie, controls)
   and blatant manipulation of the official inflation index. The real
   figure, suggested by the numbers published by two provinces, may be up
   to twice the official one (see chart 3). Similarly, Mr Kirchner's
   populist approach to energy--energy prices in Argentina are only 60%
   of those of its neighbours--has led to occasional shortages.
   Meanwhile, his government has been hit by several corruption scandals
   this year.

   Nevertheless, Mr Kirchner is still popular--more so than his wife. So
   why did he decline to stand for re-election himself and impose his
   wife as the Peronist candidate? He has never fully explained. Some
   opponents reckon that his intention is to return in four years' time,
   thus prolonging the family hold on power. Insiders say that he
   believes that Ms Fernández's skills are better suited than his own to
   the tasks now facing the country. "She can sit down and bargain
   without having been the person who screwed over anyone," says an
   official who is close to her.

   Ms Fernández has given little away about her intentions. She has
   maintained a big lead in the opinion polls while doing little
   campaigning. Like Mr Kirchner, she does not submit to press
   conferences or interviews by Argentine journalists. She has spent much
   of the past few months travelling abroad--something her husband has
   done very little. She has unveiled few policy plans and held few
   rallies.

   But she is a better public speaker than Mr Kirchner, feisty and
   articulate where he is awkward and uncommunicative. "I identify with
   the Eva Perón who clenched her fist at the microphone, not with
   the...good fairy who arrived with Perón to hand out work and [women's]
   right to vote," she told El País, a Spanish newspaper. But some
   Argentines say she lacks the common touch of the always-remembered
   Evita. Of middle-class background, Ms Fernández and Mr Kirchner met at
   university, and worked as property lawyers in Santa Cruz, the
   Patagonian province of which he became governor. Nowadays Ms Fernández
   sports designer handbags, trademark white suits and, it is said
   snidely, collagen-enhanced lips.

   That she has not been pressed harder in the campaign says much about
   the hapless opposition. The Radical party, the traditional opposition
   to the dominant Peronists, had the misfortune to hold (and lose) power
   during the economic collapse of 2001. Even though they were
   implementing Mr Menem's policies, Argentines blamed the Radicals
   rather than the Peronists for the debacle. The party has shrunk and
   splintered: Julio Cobos, a Radical who is governor of Mendoza
   province, is Ms Fernández's running mate.

   Her main rivals are Mr Lavagna, who presents himself as an
   "alternative" to (rather than an opponent of) the Kirchners, and Elisa
   Carrió, a former Radical who offers little except a campaign against
   corruption. Several others have struggled to break into double figures
   in the polls.

   Ms Fernández not only basks in her husband's popularity. She enjoys
   some of the advantages of incumbency. She has use of the presidential
   jet and friendly coverage on state television. Her opponents say they
   have had trouble raising money because some would-be donors have held
   back for fear of a punitive tax audit. The opposition's divisions also
   help her: she can avoid a run-off provided she gets 40% of the valid
   votes and leads her closest rival by ten points.

   Assuming she wins, will Ms Fernández's policies differ from those of
   her husband? Her political views, like Mr Kirchner's, were forged in
   the Peronist left of the 1970s: nationalism, a sizeable state role in
   the economy and hostility to the armed forces. But aides point to
   differences of emphasis and experience. Ms Fernández has been her
   husband's de facto floor leader in Congress over the past four years.
   Unlike him, she is a negotiator, they say.

   While Mr Kirchner's opponents accuse him of autocratic tendencies, Ms
   Fernández's defenders present her as a champion of democratic
   institutions. On that, however, there are disagreements. She
   championed bills to give the presidency control over judicial
   appointments, and to reallocate congressionally-mandated spending at
   will. Yet she also supported moves to reform the Supreme Court that
   have the backing of NGOs.

   The clearest difference is in foreign policy. Mr Kirchner showed no
   interest in it, beyond an alliance with Venezuela's Hugo Chávez, whose
   government has bought some $5 billion in Argentine bonds and has
   swapped diesel fuel for farm machinery and other products. On her
   trips abroad, Ms Fernández has courted businessmen. She is likely to
   seek better relations with the United States and Europe, but without
   breaking with Mr Chávez. She has said she plans to renegotiate the $7
   billion that Argentina owes the Paris Club of rich-country
   lenders--but rejects the club's requirement that the IMF be involved.
   It is not clear whether she would seek to ease Argentina's access to
   world financial markets by reaching a deal with the holders of bonds
   (worth $20 billion at face value) who did not accept the debt
   restructuring.

   One big doubt is whether she will take the steps, eschewed by Mr
   Kirchner, needed to engineer a soft landing for the economy. Once
   inflation exceeds 20% and energy rationing reaches homes, Argentines
   will surely demand solutions to these problems. But these involve
   unpopular measures for which the public has not been prepared. If
   inflation is to be curbed, rather than covered-up, interest rates will
   have to rise, the growth of public spending will need to be checked,
   and the peso be allowed to appreciate. Energy tariffs will have to
   rise, some of them steeply.

   A second doubt concerns Mr Kirchner's role--assuming it is his wife to
   whom he passes the presidential sash on December 10th. He has vowed to
   remain in politics; although Peronism is a mosaic of warring factions,
   he controls its most powerful political machine. So Argentines will be
   in little doubt that if they vote for Ms Fernández they will be
   getting two Kirchners for the price of one--a somewhat inflated price,
   opponents would doubtless say.


                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   Much though Evo Morales (left) might want to be another Hugo Chávez,
   he will not find it easy 


   WHEN FIFA, the body that governs world football, decreed last month
   that international matches could not be played at altitudes above
   2,500 metres (8,200 feet), Evo Morales must have been delighted. For
   once, Bolivia's president could apply his genius for political gesture
   to an issue that does not divide his countrymen. Mr Morales, a keen
   footballer, turned out for a few impromptu matches in La Paz's
   national stadium (altitude: 3,600 metres), cheered on by nearly all of
   Bolivia's 9m people. They see the FIFA ruling, which cites health
   worries, as an attack on their competitive advantage.

   Many of Mr Morales's gestures in the 17 months since he took office as
   Bolivia's first-ever elected president of Andean Indian descent have
   been more divisive. His most popular policy, the nationalisation of
   oil and gas, has irritated foreign governments and investors. The
   "democratic revolution" he promises--a transfer of wealth and power
   from Bolivia's white and mestizo (mixed race) elite to the mainly
   Andean Indian poor--alarms the prosperous eastern provinces. He calls
   the media the "main adversary" of his government and wants to hold
   them accountable to the people. On June 5th the judiciary staged a
   one-day strike to counter a presidential assault on its independence.

   In short, his opponents fear that Mr Morales is leading Bolivia down
   the path that his close friend, Hugo Chávez, has taken Venezuela: one
   of "21st-century socialism" and a presidential monopoly of power.
   "Chávez owns the Bolivian government," says Jorge Quiroga, the leader
   of the opposition Podemos party.

   Mr Chávez is clearly an ally and an inspiration for Mr Morales, but
   does that make him a model? His advisers insist not. "It's a mistake
   to think that Morales is a copy of Chávez," says Pablo Solón, the
   government's foreign-trade envoy.

   There are three reasons to think he may be right, none of which assume
   that Mr Morales would not enjoy wielding absolute power. First, while
   Mr Chávez is a former army officer who came to national prominence by
   leading a failed military coup, Mr Morales is the leader of a
   coca-growers' union and of a coalition of radical "social movements"
   whose protests brought down two previous governments. Mr Morales is
   now their unchallenged leader, but they will resist the idea that all
   change should come from the top down.

   Second, Mr Morales confronts powerful regions headed by elected
   governors opposed to his plan to "refound" Bolivia. Finally, although
   natural gas has been a bonanza, its revenues are far more modest than
   Venezuela's oil billions. Bolivia cannot generate enough growth and
   jobs without private and foreign investment. In short, Venezuela is a
   one-man show but governing Bolivia demands alliances.

   Mr Morales himself seems unsure of where he is heading. His ready
   acceptance of Venezuelan patronage and his raids on independent
   institutions feed suspicions. In April 2006 Mr Morales signed up to Mr
   Chávez's "Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas", a managed-trade
   agreement and anti-American alliance also involving Cuba. Venezuelan
   aid has poured in. It pays for scholarships, a campaign to distribute
   identity cards and the cheques that Mr Morales hands out to mayors for
   local development in the Altiplano, Bolivia's vast western plateau.
   More aid is promised for a network of community radio stations and the
   upgrading of the main state television station.

   Mr Morales also has Mr Chávez's penchant for subverting rival centres
   of power, but perhaps less talent for it. Take the latest clash with
   the judiciary. This began when the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that
   four Supreme-Court justices temporarily appointed by the president
   should yield their seats. Mr Morales called for the tribunal's
   impeachment. The judiciary staged its first-ever strike to resist the
   government's attempt to "throw out the Bolivian judicial system and
   implant a totalitarian regime," said a statement by the Supreme Court.

   In January Mr Morales's supporters tried to unseat the governor of
   Cochabamba, the country's third most-populous province, for proposing
   a referendum on autonomy. Three people died in violent clashes. The
   incident pushed the governor closer to the four opposition-led eastern
   regions that had already backed autonomy in a 2005 referendum.

   These skirmishes are part of an improvised revolution with uncertain
   aims. The vice-president, Álvaro García Linera, recently called for a
   "broadening of elites" and "room for both capitalist and
   post-capitalist development". What opponents see as an assault on
   democracy, the government sees as purging vestiges of
   "anti-democratic" tendencies.

   Greater clarity should soon come from a constituent assembly that is
   writing a new constitution (another device used by Mr Chávez to
   consolidate his power). Mr Morales's Movement to Socialism (MAS)
   proposes to redefine Bolivia as a "unitary, pluri-national,
   communitarian" state that gives pride of place to three dozen
   indigenous "nations". These groups would control territory and natural
   resources and would be represented as communities in a single-chamber
   legislature alongside individual citizens. Private enterprise would be
   protected when it "contributes to economic and socio-cultural
   development". A fourth "social power" would oversee the traditional
   three.

   This smacks of corporatism, not democracy. The opposition objects to
   dividing Bolivia ethnically, and to the abolition of the Senate, where
   small provinces have political weight. The MAS has a majority in the
   assembly but not the two-thirds required to approve a new
   constitutional text. Samuel Doria Medina, the leader of a centrist
   opposition party, thinks compromise is possible. Indigenous "nations",
   for example, could become wispier "nationalities", he says.

   In some moods the government seems open to compromise. "We don't want
   a constitution approved by 60 or 70% of the country but rejected by
   the rest," said Mr García Linera. The final text, due by August 6th,
   will be subject to a referendum and then to interpretation by the
   courts, which Mr Morales does not yet control. What he may really be
   angling for is an end to the current rule that bars presidents from
   consecutive terms, so that he could run for re-election under the new
   constitution next year and again in 2013. In return, he would accept
   the opposition's demands for regional autonomy, says Carlos Toranzo, a
   political analyst.

   Such deal-making would not be out of character. In January, Mr Morales
   dropped a campaign for the assembly to approve constitutional articles
   by simple majority after this provoked huge protests in the eastern
   regions. With the United States, he has arranged a wary, and perhaps
   temporary, truce. Some 40,000 jobs, mainly in the poor western
   highlands, depend directly on American trade concessions, now up for
   renewal. The United States, eager to avoid rupture, is overlooking Mr
   Morales's enthusiasm for coca, the raw material for cocaine. Recently,
   he joined the American ambassador to open a newly-illuminated road
   tunnel-- something it is hard to imagine Mr Chávez doing.

   But charging ahead when he can, and retreating when he must, is not a
   strategy for governance. The inexperienced, often inept, government
   has achieved little beyond boosting ethnic and national pride, and gas
   royalties. Bolivia is enjoying multiple windfalls, from high commodity
   prices to remittances and debt forgiveness. Even so, the economy grew
   less than the Latin American average last year, points out Gonzalo
   Chávez of the Catholic University in La Paz. More than half the
   population is poor, four-fifths of workers labour in the informal
   economy and emigration continues. Mining and gas apart, private
   investment is a negligible 2-3% of GDP. Yet in April Bolivia said it
   would withdraw from an international arbitration panel that investors
   use to resolve disputes. If he does not create good jobs, no amount of
   constitutional gimmickry will sustain Mr Morales's current popularity.


   Covering up a death has got harder


   FOR the past few weeks Miami has been gripped by rumours that Fidel
   Castro, Cuba's sick communist president, may be dead. One factor
   fuelling the fire is that Cuban officials insist that his health is a
   state secret, though they also say he continues to recover from
   intestinal surgery. Another is that no new images of Mr Castro were
   issued on his 81st birthday last month. Then there is the deep-rooted
   belief among his opponents that the death of the Líder Máximo will be
   covered up.

   It would not be the first time. El Cid, Spain's quasi-fictional hero
   of the Reconquista, is alleged to have carried on fighting after his
   death, his body strapped to his horse to terrify his Moorish
   opponents. China's first emperor, Qin Shi Huang, died on a journey in
   210BC, but the news was kept quiet for two months until his entourage
   had safely returned to the capital. The death of Edward VI, a young
   English king, was disguised during several days of scheming over his
   succession. Tibetan leaders managed to hide the death of the fifth
   Dalai Lama for no fewer than 15 years.

   But cover-ups have got much harder. Not even the sudden and
   destabilising death of Joseph Stalin or the expected demises of Josip
   Broz Tito, Leonid Brezhnev or Kim Il Sung were hushed up for long. To
   hide the death of a dictator, one of his sidekicks needs to have both
   privileged access to information and the strength to suppress its
   leakage. But any such person is an obvious successor and thus has
   little interest in concealment.

   Nonsense, say the conspiracy theorists in Miami. They point to the
   cases of Spain's General Francisco Franco and Mao Zedong, both of
   whose deaths were revealed on suspiciously symbolic dates (the
   anniversary of Japan's surrender to China, in Mao's case). So just
   before October 10th, the date of Cuba's declaration of independence
   from Spain in 1868, expect another wave of rumours in Miami that Mr
   Castro has passed away.


   Néstor Kirchner's unusual alliance


   THE best-defended building in the centre of Buenos Aires is not a bank
   or a barracks. It is the headquarters of AMIA, a Jewish cultural
   centre. Security guards require government-issued identification of
   all visitors, who must then pass through a pair of thick metal doors.
   The reason: in 1994 AMIA was hit by a car bomb that killed 85 people.

   Nobody has yet been convicted of the outrage. In 2003 Britain detained
   Iran's former ambassador to Buenos Aires, whom Argentina accused of
   helping the bombers. But he was released for lack of evidence (as were
   five local suspects). Last year an Argentine court formally requested
   the extradition of eight former Iranian officials.

   Argentina's Jewish community, the largest in Latin America, has found
   a somewhat unlikely ally in Néstor Kirchner, the country's left-wing
   president. His Peronist party long had an anti-Semitic streak: its
   founder, Juan Perón, blocked Jewish migration to Argentina and gave
   refuge to scores of Nazi leaders after the second world war.

   But Mr Kirchner has gone out of his way to court Argentine Jews. He
   has created a special commission to re-investigate the AMIA case. He
   meets Jewish leaders around five times a year; his wife, Cristina
   Fernández, who is expected to succeed him in the presidency after an
   election on October 28th, visited Israel in 2005.

   Mr Kirchner has also backed moves to try crimes committed by the army
   during its "dirty war" against leftist guerrillas in the 1970s.
   Although Jews make up just 1% of the population they account for 8% of
   those who "disappeared" in that period. On October 9th Christian von
   Wernich, a Catholic priest, was sentenced to life imprisonment for
   complicity in murder, torture and kidnapping. One of those who was
   tortured in his presence was Jacobo Timerman, a prominent Jewish
   newspaper editor.

   Mr Kirchner devoted much of his speech at the UN last month to
   criticising Iran's failure to extradite the suspected officials. In
   this, he seems to be trying to offset his alliance with Venezuela's
   Hugo Chávez, who is friendly with Iran. Although her husband's
   relations with George Bush have been strained, Ms Fernández may reckon
   that a shared dislike of Iran will bring closer ties with the next
   American president.


   A case of double standards

   HIS enemies call Luis Posada Carriles the "bin Laden of the Americas".
   His release from a New Mexico jail on April 19th has sparked
   accusations of inconsistency in President George Bush's "war on
   terror". They accuse Mr Posada, an elderly Cuban exile, of one of the
   most notorious crimes in recent Latin American history: the bombing of
   a Cuban airliner off Barbados in 1976 in which all 73 people on board
   died. Mr Posada, who has Venezuelan citizenship, was charged with the
   bombing in his adopted country. Venezuela's courts consider him a
   fugitive after he escaped from jail in 1985 while awaiting trial.

   Both Cuba and Venezuela want the United States to extradite Mr Posada.
   His lawyers argue that he would face torture in either country. But he
   is unlikely to enjoy the comfort of his home in Miami for very long.
   He was released on bail pending trial on May 11th in Texas on seven
   counts of immigration fraud and lying about his illegal entry into the
   country. If convicted, he could face up to 40 years in jail. Since he
   is 79 and frail, any substantial jail sentence might in practice be
   for life.

   The Justice Department claims it did everything it could to dissuade
   the judge from ordering Mr Posada's release. "We can't just
   unilaterally order a person to be held," a spokesman said. But critics
   point out that the government frequently does just that under the
   anti-terrorist Patriot Act.

   Why has this not been used against Mr Posada? In court papers,
   prosecutors describe him as "an unrepentant criminal and admitted
   mastermind of terrorist plots". But Mr Posada spent much of the cold
   war working with the Central Intelligence Agency. He took part in the
   Bay of Pigs, the CIA's failed attempt to invade Fidel Castro's Cuba in
   1961. He later helped to smuggle arms to anti-communist rebels in
   Nicaragua.

   Mr Posada also boasted of organising several small bombs in Cuban
   hotels in 1997, one of which killed an Italian tourist (he later
   retracted this claim). Three years later Cuba accused him of plotting
   to assassinate Mr Castro at a summit in Panama. He was jailed, but
   subsequently pardoned.

   Prosecutors say that he lied about how he returned to the United
   States in 2005 in order to protect fellow Cuban exiles in Miami who
   helped smuggle him in by boat. That may prove to be his undoing. But
   the failure to extradite him may make other countries warier of
   collaborating with American justice.


   Development bankers face growing competition

   IT IS the strange fate of the World Bank to unite enemies on the left
   and right. While Hugo Chávez, Venezuela's leftist president, wants the
   bank out of his backyard, its conservative critics think it should let
   go of most of its Latin American clients, who they say are now much
   better served by private capital.

   Only a handful of countries in the region are poor enough to qualify
   for the bank's soft loans and handouts. The rest borrow from its
   money-making arm, the International Bank for Reconstruction and
   Development (IBRD). This had $36.3 billion of loans to the region on
   its books at the end of the last fiscal year.

   Latin America is where the bank makes much of its money. It earned
   $1.7 billion in interest and fees last year, 36% of the total. But
   demand for its loans is wavering (see chart). As the cost of borrowing
   in the capital markets has fallen, both the World Bank and its
   regional equivalent, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), find
   it harder to compete on price.

   Moreover, private creditors do not care how their money is used, as
   long as it is repaid. The World Bank is more particular. For example,
   the projects it backs must take pains not to despoil the environment
   unduly or uproot indigenous peoples unfairly.

   Rather than surrendering its best customers to private creditors, the
   bank wants to price its loans more keenly and make borrowing less
   cumbersome, using a country's own auditing and procurement methods
   wherever they are up to scratch.

   The IDB, which has escaped Mr Chávez's ire, faces a similar challenge.
   "We have to reinvent ourselves," says its president, Luis Alberto
   Moreno. He says that one way the bank is doing so is by lending to
   state and local governments who lack the sovereign guarantee needed to
   borrow cheaply in markets. It is also focusing on infrastructure
   projects such as water, sewerage and rural electricity, as well as
   microfinance schemes.

   Both banks are also looking at regionwide projects, which are more
   complicated to finance commercially. The World Bank has a
   tele-medicine network, which conveys medical findings in the United
   States to hospitals in the farther reaches of Latin America. Both also
   stress that their loans come with valuable technical advice. Critics
   say they should do more to separate the two.

   Mr Chávez portrays the World Bank as a domineering patron, imposing
   its beliefs on any nation that takes its coin. It would be more
   accurate to describe it as a fading brand, anxious to serve its
   customers better in a newly crowded marketplace.


   The imbroglio over a cash-stuffed suitcase

                                                                      EPA
                                                                      EPA

                                   The Kirchners and their wealthy friend


   WHEN Cristina Fernández replaced her husband, Néstor Kirchner, as
   Argentina's president on December 10th, she hinted that she would
   improve her country's strained relations with the United States. But
   exactly a week later a prosecutor in Miami accused five men of trying
   to cover up an alleged effort to funnel Venezuelan cash to Ms
   Fernández's election campaign. The president promptly accused the
   United States government of mounting "a garbage operation" against
   her. With the only two of the five so far indicted pleading not guilty
   on December 27th, the stage seems set for months of revelations--and
   bad blood.

   At the centre of this tangle is Guido Antonini Wilson, a Venezuelan
   businessman who also has an American passport and who lives in Key
   Biscayne, a wealthy Miami enclave. Last August Mr Antonini arrived in
   Buenos Aires from Caracas on a private jet chartered by Argentina's
   state energy company, clutching a suitcase with $800,000 in cash which
   he had failed to declare. Customs officials confiscated the cash but
   let Mr Antonini go. When the story reached the Argentine papers, Mr
   Kirchner sacked Claudio Uberti, his unofficial envoy to Caracas who
   was also on the plane, as were officials from PDVSA, Venezuela's state
   oil company.

   Thereafter the five accused--four Venezuelans and a Uruguayan--met Mr
   Antonini several times in Miami. According to the American Justice
   Department, they tried through threats and the offer of $2m to
   persuade him not to reveal that the cash came from the Venezuelan
   government and, prosecutors claim, was intended for Ms Fernandez's
   campaign. These conversations were recorded secretly by Mr Antonini,
   who was co-operating with the FBI, and are alleged to have included
   several phone calls with officials in Venezuela's secret police. The
   Justice Department has charged the five with operating illegally as
   Venezuelan government agents. Of that there is no proof, says Ed
   Shohat, a defence lawyer. They were merely offering friendly advice to
   Mr Antonini, he said.

   Argentine officials claim that the whole case is a CIA fabrication and
   a reprisal for the Kirchners' ties to Venezuela's left-wing president,
   Hugo Chávez. Mr Kirchner demanded that the Americans send Mr Antonini
   to Argentina to face justice there. But that begs the question as to
   why the Argentine government allowed him to leave in August, and had
   shown no subsequent interest in investigating him. Mr Uberti's former
   secretary told an Argentine judge last month that she saw Mr Antonini
   at a reception at the presidential palace two days after the cash was
   discovered.

   Mr Kirchner's government forged an alliance of convenience with Mr
   Chávez. Since 2005 Venezuela has bought $5 billion of Argentine bonds,
   most of which it has passed on to friendly local banks at a steep
   discount; it has sold Argentina diesel fuel under special arrangements
   that include the purchase of Argentine products from providers
   selected by the governments without competitive tenders.

   American officials have long been searching for evidence to back up
   their claims that Mr Chávez is using Venezuelan oil wealth to fund
   political allies across Latin America. The case may establish whether
   they have now found convincing proof of that. It has already shone
   light on the extravagant lifestyle of a small group of wealthy
   Venezuelan expatriates in Florida with close business ties to Mr
   Chávez's government, of which both Mr Antonini and the accused formed
   part. One of the defendants, Franklin Durán, drives a Ferrari; in
   partnership with another, he owns a petrochemical firm which has
   contracts with PDVSA.

   After her initial outburst, Ms Fernández herself has kept quiet about
   the case. But her government has restricted contacts with the American
   ambassador in Buenos Aires. She is playing to a public that is more
   anti-American than any other south of the Rio Grande. As Joaquín
   Morales Solá, a political analyst, puts it, the Argentine
   predisposition "is to look for a conspiracy, to see captive courts [in
   the United States] because Argentina has them. It's a mixture of
   narcissism and naivety."


   Arguments over price controls


   ON THE last Saturday in March the broad Avenida Bolívar in the heart
   of Venezuela's capital was transformed into an open-air,
   government-run "mega-market". Shoppers, mainly from poorer parts of
   the city, formed orderly queues to buy food at officially regulated
   prices--something that is often impossible in ordinary shops. "How can
   there be scarcity in a country with so much land and resources?" asked
   Ramón Díaz, a pensioner, as he rested on a bench after doing his
   shopping. "Who controls the supply of meat? The oligarchy has it
   monopolised."

   Who controls the food supply and why a fertile and oil-rich country
   should have problems getting food to its 27m people are questions that
   pit the leftist government of Hugo Chávez against much of the private
   sector. Venezuela has one of the world's highest inflation rates (see
   chart). Food prices are rising even faster than the overall index.
   That is despite--or because of--the fact that food, medicines and
   basic services have been subject to price controls since 2003. Meat,
   milk, black beans and sugar are among many products that, from time to
   time, disappear from the shelves--even those of Mercal, the
   government-run supermarket chain. Often, though, these goods can be
   found at much higher prices in the hands of street traders.

   The government has a simple answer to the conundrum. "It's part of the
   curse of capitalism," according to Mr Chávez. In February he declared
   war on "hoarders and speculators", issuing a decree mandating jail
   sentences of up to six years for anyone interfering with food
   supplies. The government promptly seized a slaughterhouse and a
   cold-store.

   Many businessmen and shopkeepers have a different view. They complain
   that controlled prices are set so low that they are obliged to sell at
   a loss. If they don't, they risk fines, temporary closure,
   expropriation or even imprisonment. In late March, for instance, the
   government temporarily closed 17 butchers' shops it accused of
   breaking price regulations. Mr Chávez has said that if he has to take
   over the entire food industry he will, although many Venezuelans doubt
   the government would be capable of running it.

   Officials usually say that the problem is hoarding, not shortages. But
   Jorge Giordani, the planning minister, recently admitted that an
   overheating economy (it grew by over 10% last year) was causing
   inflation and scarcity. Public spending has doubled in the past two
   years. There are two other factors, says Pavel Gómez of IESA, a
   Caracas business school: the price controls themselves, which have
   boosted demand and cut supply, and an expectation that prices will
   rise further, leading people to bring forward purchases.

   To make matters worse, the government recently curbed imports,
   ostensibly to protect local manufacturers. Some of them now complain
   that they cannot obtain the materials they need to make their
   products. Many businessmen are reluctant to invest, citing uncertainty
   over Mr Chávez's intentions and lack of legal protection. In which
   case, say government supporters, the state should step into the
   breach. Expect more shortages.


   Bachelet picks a new strongman


   WHEN she took office as Chile's president almost two years ago,
   Michelle Bachelet promised to be a different kind of politician, one
   who would lead a "citizens' democracy". Her first cabinet contained
   only two members with previous ministerial experience; half of its
   members were women and several were independents. Three reshuffles
   later, on January 8th, Ms Bachelet unveiled her latest team, one
   stuffed with seasoned party figures.

   That smacks of near-desperation. Broadly speaking, Chile remains a
   success story. Ms Bachelet has some achievements, such as an agreement
   on education reform, new child-care centres and wider health care. But
   she is much less popular than she was, and her government has found it
   hard to shake off a sense of drift.

   The economy no longer outperforms its neighbours, despite record
   copper revenues. High energy prices--Chile imports almost all its oil
   and gas--have contributed to a blip in inflation. A new transport
   scheme in Santiago, designed under her predecessor, has brought misery
   for commuters. Not all of this is the president's fault. But she has
   been both hesitant and meddling, and has often allowed a small cabal
   of personal advisers to overrule and undermine ministers.

   The reshuffle is a fresh start, she said. But it was a clumsy one.
   After weeks of delay, her hand was forced by the sudden resignation of
   her interior minister. His replacement, Edmundo Pérez Yoma, is a
   plain-speaking and experienced Christian Democrat who as defence
   minister in the 1990s oversaw the departure as army commander of
   General Augusto Pinochet, the former dictator. He is expected to act
   as a de facto prime minister--if the president lets him. The changes
   weaken the position of Andrés Velasco, the ultra-orthodox finance
   minister, several of whose protégés have lost their jobs. Mr Pérez
   Yoma criticised him last year for lacking "imagination and boldness".

   The reshuffle is in part an attempt to shore up Soledad Alvear, the
   leader of the Christian Democrats (DC), one of three main parties in
   the centre-left Concertación coalition, which has ruled Chile since
   the return of democracy in 1990. The DC suffered a serious split last
   month, when supporters of Ms Alvear, who is a potential presidential
   candidate, expelled Adolfo Zaldívar, a senator who led the party's
   right wing. Several of his senior followers departed too. As a result,
   the Concertación has lost its majority in Congress.

   It has also lost much of its discipline and energy. Municipal
   elections are due in October, which in turn will mark the start of
   campaigning for the next presidential election in December 2009.
   Although the right has not won a presidential vote in Chile for half a
   century, many in the Concertación fear that after almost two decades
   in power their time is nearly up. The risk for Ms Bachelet and Mr
   Pérez Yoma is that this defeatism could become self-fulfilling. They
   have their work cut out.


   President Torrijos's grip is beginning to falter

   PANAMA'S president, Martín Torrijos, is said to have been elected in
   May 2004 for two reasons: his promise to tackle vested interests and
   his genes. His father, General Omar Torrijos, a former dictator, is
   revered as the man who won back the Panama Canal from the Americans.
   Hitherto, this had given Mr Torrijos the clout to persuade the ruling
   centre-left Democratic Revolutionary Party (PRD), founded by his
   father, to accept much-needed economic reforms. But his grip may now
   be faltering.

   As president, Mr Torrijos has overhauled the deficit-ridden
   social-security system, and seen off opposition from anti-globalisers
   to a $5.25 billion project to widen the canal. He has also negotiated
   a free-trade treaty with the United States. But this has not yet been
   ratified by Washington--for a reason that reveals the continuing
   strength of the PRD's nationalist left-wing.

   The United States is refusing to ratify the deal so long as Pedro
   Miguel González, a PRD member, remains president of Panama's National
   Assembly. He is wanted by America for the murder of an American army
   sergeant in 1992, three years after the American invasion of Panama,
   when the country's dictator, Manuel Antonio Noriega, was toppled. He
   had been backed by the PRD.

   Mr Torrijos has made private appeals to his party to get Mr González
   to step aside before the latter's term ends in September. But he seems
   unwilling to risk a public confrontation with the PRD's nationalistic
   wing or the country at large. By delaying the possibility of
   ratification until shortly before the American presidential election,
   he risks killing the deal. Many business leaders are appalled.

   The president has other troubles, too. Inflation has edged up,
   prompting a rash of wage demands and public-sector strikes. Under the
   constitution, he cannot stand for a second term. He may not have much
   say about who will succeed him as president either. Elections are due
   in 2009. Balbina Herrera, housing minister and standard-bearer of the
   PRD's left wing, is currently in the lead. The opposition is fractured
   and compromised by its business ties. Although the economy is booming,
   Mr Torrijos may find that vested interests end up proving stronger
   than the appeal of genes.


   A new cell for an old dictator

   THE deposing of Manuel Noriega by American forces nearly two decades
   ago was an affair to remember. Paratroopers seized Panama's airfields.
   Mr Noriega holed up in the Vatican embassy. He eventually surrendered
   on January 3rd 1990. The invasion had been triggered by his indictment
   for drug trafficking, for which he was duly convicted by American
   courts.

   On September 9th this year the former dictator finished serving 15
   years in Miami. Having been accorded prisoner-of-war status, he was
   able to live in relative comfort; his cell had exercise equipment, a
   phone and a television. On finishing his sentence, he had been
   expected to return home, where he has been convicted of complicity in
   the 1985 murder of a political opponent.

   But the government of Martín Torrijos seems hesitant to accept him.
   This President Torrijos is the son of Omar Torrijos, who ruled from
   1968 to 1981 and was Mr Noriega's mentor. Though the government has
   called for his extradition, many suspect that Mr Torrijos is happy to
   see the former dictator sent to France, where he was convicted in 1999
   on money-laundering charges. Mr Torrijos is a member of the
   Revolutionary Democratic Party (PRD), as was Mr Noriega; the
   newly-elected PRD speaker of the National Assembly is himself wanted
   by America on murder charges. Critics of Mr Torrijos say he would
   rather avoid the difficult questions that would be bound to be raised
   by Mr Noriega's return.

   France has promised to allow the former dictator to continue to be
   treated as a prisoner of war. This clears the way for American courts
   to reject a series of appeals by his lawyers. He faces a ten-year term
   in France, making it possible that he will die before returning home.
   Were he to go first to Panama, he could not be sent to France, as
   Panama's constitution prohibits the extradition of its citizens. For
   the moment Mr Noriega remains in his cell in Miami, awaiting a final
   decision. As soon as Condoleezza Rice, America's secretary of state,
   signs a letter of extradition, he will be sent to Paris.

   Mr Noriega is a nasty piece of work, but it took a while before his
   foreign mentors found it expedient to take notice. For many years he
   was a CIA asset. In 1987 France gave him the Légion d'honneur. Maybe
   he can wear it in jail.


   The IMF can sleep easy


   DREAMT up by Venezuela's Hugo Chávez as an alternative to the wicked
   World Bank and the even more wicked IMF, the Banco del Sur (Bank of
   the South), which seven South American governments signed up to on
   December 9th, flatters to deceive. Despite months of talks, there is
   still no agreement on its capital or its statutes. Rather than a
   gesture of defiance, the bank looks like an object lesson in why South
   American unity is so hard.

   Mr Chávez conceived it as a political tool of his "Bolivarian
   revolution", to free other countries in the region from the yoke of
   the Bretton Woods institutions. "If we hand it over to the técnicos,
   then it is already dead," he said in August. He offered to donate to
   it up to half of Venezuela's foreign-exchange reserves of $30 billion.
   This week Venezuelan officials said that they would invite African
   countries to join.

   Such technocrats are exactly the people Brazil insists should staff
   the bank--if it must be staffed at all. Brazilian diplomats have been
   unusually frank in revealing their lack of enthusiasm for the new
   institution. They fear it may give soft, politically driven loans that
   go unpaid. Brazil already has its own well-endowed development bank,
   the BNDES, whose lending of 62.5 billion reais ($37 billion) in the 12
   months to September was 50% greater than that of the World Bank in the
   same period.

   The Brazilians have gone along with the project only because they feel
   they cannot remain outside any new South American institution,
   especially one with money. But they have worked to limit the bank's
   remit and to slow its creation.

   Mr Chávez can count on the vote of Bolivia and maybe that of Ecuador
   on the bank's board. But other members are likely to side with
   Brazil--and so will Chile, Colombia and Peru if they join. So expect a
   modest outfit that mainly finances cross-border infrastructure. The
   World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (not to speak of
   the Andean Development Corporation) do that already. But competition
   is a fine thing--even if it is not what Mr Chávez had in mind.


   A precarious arrangement is at risk


   TWO years ago President Álvaro Uribe promulgated a controversial law
   to regulate the demobilisation of some 31,000 members of the
   right-wing paramilitary groups who for years fought left-wing
   guerrillas by inflicting a reign of terror in the Colombian
   countryside. The law pardoned the rank-and-file fighters while
   offering reduced sentences to those charged with crimes against
   humanity--in return for their co-operation with investigators. Their
   assets were to be used to compensate victims. The official hope was
   that this offered an acceptable balance between the conflicting
   interests of justice, reparation and the achievement of peace with an
   undefeated outlaw army.

   Yet two years on, nobody is satisfied. Rights groups say the law is a
   cloak for impunity. The paramilitary leaders complain that they were
   duped by promises of lenient treatment, since broken. Officials say
   peace has been sabotaged by the courts. Hundreds of former fighters
   are re-arming.

   Universal dissatisfaction might suggest to some that the government
   has got the balance right--except that the whole precarious structure
   of the peace process now looks at risk of crashing down. Last month
   the Supreme Court ruled that the rank-and-file paramilitaries could
   not be considered to have committed (and thus be pardoned for) the
   political crime of sedition, as the law envisages.

   The court's argument was that the paramilitaries did not rise against
   the state, but acted in complicity with some army officers and
   politicians to defend economic interests (such as those of
   drug-traffickers). So, it ruled, they engaged in a criminal conspiracy
   for which they cannot be pardoned or amnestied.

   That may be legally true. But Mr Uribe accused the court of double
   standards in having considered in the past that the crimes of the
   left-wing guerrillas, which include the murder and kidnap of civilians
   as well as drug-trafficking, are political in nature. The jailed
   paramilitary leaders responded to the ruling by threatening to end
   collaboration with the authorities. They desisted only after the
   government sent Congress a new bill to grant them political status.
   But even if the bill is passed, it may well be knocked down by the
   courts.

   Mr Uribe's critics say that this impasse reflects the improvised way
   in which the peace process has been conducted. Officials counter that
   the process was bound to be messy, and that its flaws can be corrected
   as it goes along. They point out that no other country has put so many
   people on trial while conflict continues.

   Only 44 paramilitaries (out of a potential 3,000) have begun giving
   their courtroom confessions. Some 70,000 people have applied to be
   officially registered as victims. The attorney-general's office seems
   overwhelmed, and impatience among the victims is mounting.

   When militia leaders began their confessions in December, throngs of
   victims packed into anterooms where they could watch the hearings
   through a live video feed. But as one leader after another recounted
   massacres and disappearances with no remorse, and blamed many crimes
   on long-dead leaders, disillusion has grown. "The truth that we were
   promised from all this is not coming forth," says Iván Cepeda, who
   leads a national victims' organisation. Scores of victims have
   received death threats, and at least three have been murdered this
   year.

   Whereas the government pays a stipend to the former fighters, the
   victims have yet to receive anything. Even so, the biggest fear is
   that more of the demobilised paramilitaries will return to arms and
   crime. The Supreme Court's decision could encourage that, says Gustavo
   Duncan, the author of a book on the paramilitaries. But he reckons
   that the jailed leaders have no choice but to stick with the process,
   not least because for some it is the only safeguard against
   extradition to the United States on drugs charges. For all its
   problems, the likelihood is that the peace process will stumble on.


   A change of power in one of the Caribbean's best-run and most stable
   democracies

   IT WAS an all-night party in Barbados after the island's general
   election on January 15th. "Plenty change," a Bridgetown bar-owner
   grinned, and he wasn't just referring to the mounds of cash he was
   counting. After 13 lonely years in opposition, three election defeats
   and a series of long-running party-leadership squabbles, David
   Thompson led his Democratic Labour Party (DLP) triumphantly back to
   power, with 20 of the 30 parliamentary seats. In the previous
   election, in 2003, it won just seven seats.

   By American standards, the campaign was blissfully short. The election
   was called on December 20th, leaving just two lively weeks after the
   Christmas and new-year break to get the voters in. There is no great
   ideological gulf between Mr Thompson's party and the outgoing Barbados
   Labour Party (BLP). But from time to time Barbadians like to shake up
   the political scene. Although Owen Arthur, the BLP leader, was
   regarded as a good manager, people felt that he had become a little
   arrogant after his 13 years in power, and some of his party rather too
   comfortably settled.

   Voters also fretted over rising food prices, cost overruns on a road
   project and property prices jacked up by villa-buying foreigners. Then
   there was a row over claims by the BLP that Taiwan had funded Mr
   Thompson's campaign in exchange for a promise of diplomatic
   recognition. This was hotly denied by the DLP, anxious to avoid a rift
   with China.

   Barbados is one of the Caribbean's oldest and most stable democracies,
   consistently getting top-drawer rankings for its political and civil
   liberties. From 1639 an elected House of Assembly--not the
   British-appointed colonial governor--controlled the island's cash. The
   first mixed-race member, Samuel Jackman Prescod, won a seat in 1843.
   Universal suffrage eventually followed in 1951, and independence 15
   years later. On a visit to the island in 1859 Anthony Trollope, a
   British novelist, found it irritatingly well run.

   Barbados also tops all other Latin American and Caribbean countries in
   the UN Development Programme's human-development index. Transparency
   International, a corruption watchdog, ranks it second cleanest in the
   region, just behind Chile. In September unemployment hit an all-time
   low of 7%, down from a peak of 27% in 1993 when the DLP was last in
   power.

   "Change" (of leadership) was the DLP's campaign watchword. The new
   government, which inherits an uncomfortably big public debt, equal to
   88% of GDP, will have other changes to deal with, too. Important
   business decisions are increasingly likely to be taken in neighbouring
   Trinidad rather than Barbados. Many big local firms are already
   majority-owned by Trinidad shareholders. Now two Trinidad companies
   are fighting for control of Barbados Shipping & Trading, the island's
   biggest conglomerate.

   Sugar, the economic mainstay until the 1960s, will lose its guaranteed
   European market by 2015, and is already suffering EU price cuts. Costs
   are among the world's highest, but cane keeps the landscape in good
   order. Shutting down sugar would dent the country's confidence, too.
   Mr Arthur had proposed a new $156m sugar factory, using cane for
   electricity and biofuel, and exporting pricey premium-brand Plantation
   Reserve sugar. The DLP called the plan a "mishmash", but has yet to
   come up with a better one.

   Meanwhile, the island's medium-sized independent hotels, the backbone
   of its tourist industry, are facing rising costs and increasing
   competition from cruise ships; some have closed. High oil prices will
   push up air fares this year. Further ahead, global (over)warming may
   cut the pulling power of Barbados's tropical beaches, now attracting
   over half a million tourists a year.

   On the upside, there may be oil. In 2004 Barbados faced down Trinidad
   in a dispute over their maritime boundaries, and two years later won a
   big slice of seabed, which America's Geological Service believes may
   contain some generous deposits, though the waters are deep and the
   geology complex. A bid round for exploration rights, which has already
   sparked interest from several big oil companies, closes in April. Over
   to you, Mr Thompson.


   A different Kirchner is in charge, but many of the policies remain the
   same

                                                                      AFP

                                    AFP


   AT A packed ceremony in Argentina's Congress on December 10th, Néstor
   Kirchner gave his wife, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, a gift
   hitherto unknown in the history of marriage: his country's
   presidential sash and staff. In an improvised but fluent speech, she
   returned the compliment by lavishing praise on his achievements, and
   promising to consolidate them. She has kept many of her husband's
   ministers. But amid this seamless display of political continuity are
   hints of change ahead for Argentina.

   Ms Fernández, although a former senator and experienced politician in
   her own right, owes her elevation to her husband's decision not to
   seek a second term. In that sense, her status as Argentina's first
   elected woman president is not quite the feminist victory it appears
   (see [4]article).

   Buoyed by his popularity--the economy has expanded by nearly 50% since
   he took office in 2003--she coasted to victory in an election in
   October with the slogan "change is just beginning". In foreign
   affairs, that may be true. She has also implied that she will be more
   respectful of Argentina's democratic institutions than her sometimes
   high-handed husband. Where Mr Kirchner seemed to relish confrontation,
   she ran as a consensus-builder.

   Her biggest test will be the management of an economy that shows signs
   of overheating after its vigorous recovery from the financial collapse
   of 2001-02. That recovery owed much to high world prices for the
   country's farm exports, but Argentines give Mr Kirchner, a left-wing
   Peronist, much of the credit. Until a pre-election spending binge, he
   ran a fairly tight fiscal policy. He bullied many of the country's
   creditors into accepting a debt restructuring on tough terms. He also
   paid off the IMF in order not to have to listen to its advice,
   refounded several state companies and kept the peso cheap in order to
   promote re-industrialisation.

   Most economists reckon inflation is close to 20%, although the
   government has massaged the official figure to keep it to half that,
   as well as imposing price controls. Energy demand is close to
   outpacing supply: the last southern-hemisphere winter saw occasional
   blackouts.

   Ms Fernández said she would make "necessary corrections". In an
   attempt to boost innovation, she has created a new ministry for
   science and technology. In the past few weeks her husband has floated
   plans to raise energy tariffs and taken steps to restore the fiscal
   surplus. But it appears that Mr Kirchner's notorious price-fixer,
   Guillermo Moreno, the secretary for internal trade, will keep his job.
   "The Kirchners are Peronists," says Luis Tonelli, a columnist for
   Debate magazine. "If they have to choose between jobs and inflation,
   they'll choose jobs."

   The choice may come in wage negotiations next year. Ms Fernández
   called for a "social pact". Labour may be in no mood to compromise.
   Hugo Moyano, a powerful union leader, has given warning of strikes if
   the new president does not bless big wage rises across the board. "For
   the government, inflation will begin to matter once it matters to
   workers and businessmen," says Vladimir Werning of JPMorgan, an
   investment bank.

   Change may be more tangible in foreign policy, which bored Mr Kirchner
   but fascinates his wife. She said that Argentina would "re-engage with
   the world". She has signalled that she wants better ties with the
   United States, Europe and Brazil. In the first case, new strains may
   come from a decision by prosecutors in Florida this week to charge
   four people they claim were Venezuelan agents with plotting to conceal
   an intended $800,000 cash contribution during Argentina's election
   campaign.

   Ms Fernández is no less a nationalist than her husband. While keen to
   settle Argentina's $7 billion of defaulted debt with the Paris Club of
   creditor governments, she refuses to brook involvement by the IMF,
   which the group normally requires. She shares her husband's enthusiasm
   for Venezuela's Hugo Chávez, who buys Argentina's bonds and sells it
   fuel.

   Having handed over the sash, what will Mr Kirchner now do? He has said
   that he will devote himself to reorganising Peronism. Just as she was
   an influential adviser during his presidency, doubtless he will be
   too. He came to office with "more unemployed than votes", as his wife
   recalled. But at least the country was already on the rebound in 2003.
   Ms Fernández may find her husband a hard act to follow. She may have
   to steer her course between a slowdown in the world economy as well as
   accelerating inflation at home. Unlike him, she starts her presidency
   stronger and more popular than she may end it.


   Malnutrition amid growing plenty


   KICKING a football around a dusty lot, Judin Quicaño looks like any
   other boy of four. But stand him against a standard growth chart and
   he is almost a head shorter than he should be at his age. His mother
   says that is just his natural build. Health officials say he is among
   nearly 30% of Peruvian children in his age group who suffer from
   chronic malnutrition. The figure rises to 90% in places such as
   Lliupapuquio, a village in Apurímac department in Peru's heavily
   Indian southern Andes where Judin lives.

   The picture is similar in neighbouring Bolivia and Ecuador. What makes
   the stunting of children's lives and bodies more shocking in Peru's
   case is that the country is enjoying a boom. The GDP expanded by 8.3%
   last year alone, and is some 45% bigger today than it was in 2001.
   Many of the poor benefit from social programmes. The government spends
   around $250m a year on food-aid schemes alone, which reach
   three-quarters of families in poor rural areas.

   So why does malnutrition remain so prevalent? One reason is that in
   the Andes it generally manifests itself as stunted growth. Many
   Peruvians, often including the parents of the children concerned,
   believe that people of Andean Indian descent are naturally short.
   Malnutrition is thus "invisible" because the children are not
   "super-thin or dehydrated", says Ian Walker, a social-protection
   specialist at the World Bank. But children who do not eat well in
   their first two years will face learning difficulties.

   Although governments have increased spending on social programmes,
   they have done little to improve their effectiveness. In Apurímac,
   mayors complain of duplication, corruption and lack of local control.
   But the biggest problem is that economic growth is not reaching many
   parts of the Andes. Official figures put poverty in Apurímac at 74.8%
   in 2006, having increased slightly since 2004. In such places, a lack
   of transport, education and health care all conspire against progress.

   When he took office in July 2006, President Alan García pledged to cut
   the incidence of child malnutrition by eight percentage points by the
   end of his term in 2011. The World Bank and other development agencies
   are trying to help. Last year the World Bank approved a $150m loan for
   streamlining social programmes and to enhance their impact on
   malnutrition, health and schooling, especially in Andean Indian
   villages.

   There are reasons for hope. In Santa María de Chicmo, a district in
   Apurímac, the incidence of malnourishment in children has been cut
   from 80% to 30% since 2000. Most of the credit belongs to a scheme
   pioneered by Kusi Warma, an NGO whose name means "Happy Child" in
   Quechua, and whose work is backed by the municipal council and Unicef,
   the United Nations' children fund. It revolves around a small centre
   where new mothers bring their children for pre-school education and
   information about nutrition and health. The task facing Peru is to
   replicate this success, and go beyond it.


   A setback for Lula and new uncertainty for public finances

   IT IS an odd conjunction. The government struggles to get much done.
   But the president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, floats above other
   politicians on a cloud of his own popularity. On December 13th he
   suffered the biggest defeat of his second term, when the Senate
   rejected the renewal of the CPMF, a tax on financial transactions. On
   the same day, Ibope, a pollster, suggested that 65% of Brazilians
   approve of their president.

   What explains this mixture of popularity and impotence? First, it is
   rare for any president to enjoy a majority in the Senate. He must use
   patronage to build coalitions and involve himself in negotiations with
   the opposition. Lula does neither of these things particularly well.
   His government has given too many jobs to Lula's own Workers' Party
   and to its biggest coalition partner, the PMDB, a blancmange of a
   party whose guiding philosophy is to wobble in the direction of power
   and then demand rewards for its support.

   Second, an expanding economy has kept tax revenues buoyant, making
   arguing for more taxes tricky. In a last-minute bid to save the CPMF,
   Lula announced that all the 40 billion reais ($22 billion) the new tax
   would raise would be spent on health care. Earlier, the government
   said it was essential to pay for bolsa família, a large-scale
   anti-poverty scheme. The opposition reckoned the tax would allow the
   government to splurge before municipal elections next year.

   The loss of the CPMF is a setback but not a disaster for the
   government. It can probably plug the gap through clever accounting and
   rises in other taxes. It could even trim a bloated bureaucracy. But
   the overall fiscal deficit runs close to 2% of GDP. Traders in the
   financial markets reckon that the Senate's blow to the public finances
   will discourage the ratings agencies from elevating Brazil's debt to
   investment grade. Lula was more serene. When his finance minister
   suggested that a new tax would be needed to replace the missing
   revenue, Lula told him to stop worrying and calm down.


   Getting ready for a post-Castro bonanza

   THE American businessman at this month's international trade fair in
   Havana was full of excitement about the communist island's investment
   prospects as its long-serving president ails. "It's a perfect storm,"
   he enthused: "Fidel will soon be gone, and a Democratic president will
   be in the White House. Bye-bye embargo!"

   Few of the foreign investors who have spent years struggling to make
   money in Cuba, caught between American trade restrictions, communist
   bureaucracy and preferential deals for key allies such as China and
   Venezuela, see it quite so simply. But even the most jaded are
   wondering whether things might be looking up. Hopes have been raised
   by news of a huge deal in the making. It could be the shape of things
   to come.

   After two years of negotiations, plans are moving forward for Dubai
   Ports World, a partly state-owned company in the United Arab Emirates,
   to invest $250m in converting the decrepit port in Mariel, just west
   of Havana, into a modern container facility. A formal feasibility
   study has been commissioned.

   The choice of Mariel, one of the closest points in Cuba to the United
   States, is significant. The port is best known as the setting for a
   massive boatlift in 1980 when, over a period of six months, 125,000
   Cubans set off in flimsy rafts as Fidel Castro turned a temporary
   blind eye to those wanting to leave his poor one-party state. They
   were picked up and taken to the United States by a flotilla of
   American yachts.

   Mariel appeals to international port operators for the same
   reason--its proximity to the United States. "This deal isn't just
   about getting goods to Cuba," said one analyst who had studied the
   project. "It's about getting into the US market." American ports are
   close to capacity, and environmental restrictions make any big
   expansion of existing terminals unlikely. In a post-embargo world,
   Mariel, which is expected to be open for business by 2012, would be a
   well-positioned hub. Goods could be transferred from the big container
   ships arriving at the port to smaller vessels which could then reach
   dozens of harbours in the southern United States.

   Dubai Ports World refuses to comment on the deal. But there can be
   little doubt that the company is eager to gain a foothold, if not
   actually in the United States, then as close as possible to it. Last
   year it was forced to abandon plans to operate six big ports in the
   United States after Congress expressed security concerns. Although the
   United Arab Emirates is considered a close American ally, two of the
   hijackers involved in the September 11th 2001 terrorist attacks were
   UAE nationals.

   Does Cuba's acceptance of the Mariel project mean that the country's
   top brass is beginning to plan seriously for the day when the American
   embargo might end? That might appear premature, given that the Bush
   administration has explicitly ruled out unrestricted trading with a
   Cuban government under Raul Castro, Fidel's brother and presumed
   successor, and that only one American presidential candidate (Chris
   Dodd, a Democratic outsider) has called for a complete end to the
   embargo.

   All the same, there is evidence that Cuban officials do believe that
   the days of the bloqueo (as they refer to the embargo) are numbered.
   The Cuban ministries that deal with foreign investment, known by their
   Orwellian abbreviations of MINVEC and MINFAR, have recently been
   putting the word out to foreign investors that tenders are welcome for
   a raft of projects. Theme parks, super-yacht marinas, golf courses,
   even airlines--all apparently geared to a future American market
   too--feature prominently on the list.

   An end to the embargo could provide a bonanza to investors with assets
   in Cuba that would appeal to American corporations. The paltry returns
   from, say, a share in a Havana hotel would be dwarfed by the value
   that could be realised by selling that stake to an American hotel
   chain. "That's the game plan," admitted one Havana-based businessman.
   "But," he added, "so is patience."


                                                                   Corbis

                                   Corbis

   How to reform the flawed behemoth that is the world's sixth-biggest
   oil producer

   CANTARELL, in the Gulf of Mexico, was once the world's biggest
   offshore oilfield, holding over 35 billion barrels of the black stuff.
   Now, after nearly three decades, it is running out. At its peak in
   2004 it produced 2.1m barrels of oil per day (b/d), making up 60% of
   Mexico's total output. That figure has already fallen by more than
   500,000 b/d and could fall by another 200,000 b/d by the spring.

   This is a worry for both Mexico and the world. Although Mexico
   contains less than 1% of the world's proven oil reserves, it is the
   sixth-largest producer. Its output of 3.1m b/d is well above that of
   Venezuela or Kuwait. And although oil no longer dominates the Mexican
   economy--even at recent high prices it provided 16% of exports in
   2006, down from 68% in 1982--it lubricates the public finances,
   contributing nearly 40% of federal revenues.

   Since its nationalisation in 1938, Mexican oil has been the preserve
   of Petróleos Mexicanos, a state monopoly. Pemex resembles a poorly run
   government ministry. Its past three chief executives have all been
   accused of corruption (though some of these allegations may stem from
   bureaucratic infighting). It must comply with onerous procurement
   rules meant to prevent graft, which in practice are merely a drag on
   getting things done.

   This flawed behemoth is now in "a race against time" to compensate for
   Cantarell, says Fabio Barbosa, an energy specialist at Mexico's
   National Autonomous University. It is a race that Pemex seems likely
   to lose. In a document released in December setting out its strategy
   for the next five years, the energy ministry forecast that total oil
   production would decline to 2.5m b/d unless policies were reformed,
   and would remain roughly constant even if the industry were
   liberalised.

   This is partly the result of two wasted decades in which governments
   have milked Pemex of cash which it might otherwise have invested. That
   has begun to change: investment in exploration and production doubled
   between 2000 and 2006 (though much of the increase came through
   federal debt guarantees to private contractors). Mexico's president,
   Felipe Calderón, has pushed through a reform of public finances that
   will cut the royalty Pemex pays from 79 centavos on every peso of oil
   it extracts to 71.5 centavos by 2012. The company expects its capital
   spending to rise in 2008 by 20% in real terms.

   But this may be too little too late. Mr Barbosa reckons that the
   density of drilling rigs is 20 times greater in oil-producing parts of
   the American segment of the Gulf of Mexico than it is in Mexican
   waters. In particular, Pemex has drilled a mere 20 exploratory wells
   in water deeper than 300 metres (980 feet). The only result so far is
   Lakach, a gasfield now moving prematurely towards production after the
   sinking of only one exploratory well. The rush stems from an official
   desire to start deep-water production before the end of Mr Calderón's
   term in 2012, reckons David Shields, an energy consultant.

   Pemex has trouble maintaining its existing installations. A fire at a
   platform in Cantarell in October killed 21 workers. The firm has also
   suffered several bombings of pipelines this year by a guerrilla group.
   Since Mexico has not built a new refinery in 20 years, it has to
   import 40% of its petrol from the United States. The competition
   commission says Pemex's 7,500 petrol stations are too few to meet
   demand.

   The obvious solution is to privatise the industry, but that is
   politically impossible. The state oil monopoly is both popular and
   constitutionally mandated. So Mr Calderón and other politicians have
   been searching for ways to loosen the monopoly while respecting the
   constitution.

   The Senate's energy committee is holding a "private, technical debate"
   on how to do this, according to Rubén Camarillo, a senator from Mr
   Calderón's centre-right National Action Party. The purpose is to try
   to reach an all-party consensus by February. So far there is
   "agreement about what needs to be done, but not how to do it," says Mr
   Camarillo.

   One step forward would be to grant Pemex control of its own budget. At
   present some $10 billion a year of this goes back to the federal
   treasury--on top of Pemex's tax payments. Another proposal would open
   refining, transport and distribution to private enterprise. This could
   be done without changing the constitution, since what constitutes "the
   oil industry" is defined only in ordinary legislation, as César
   Hernández of CIDAC, a Mexico City think-tank, points out. This was the
   route taken in the 1990s to allow private investment in electricity
   generation and the transport of natural gas. Similarly, the ban on
   risk-sharing contracts in oil exploration is set out only in ordinary
   law.

   But the crux of the problem is how to make Pemex more efficient and
   open. Five of its 11 board members are appointed by the oil workers'
   union, a bastion of old-fashioned corporatism. Mr Camarillo reckons
   that reform could cut Pemex's operating costs by 20%. Others look at
   the company's overmanning and contract-padding and put the figure
   higher.

   Reaching a political consensus on oil reform eluded Mexico's past two
   presidents. Sergio Osorio, who advises the centre-left Party of the
   Democratic Revolution on energy, cautions that if Mr Calderón tries to
   pass reforms on an issue as sensitive as oil merely by reaching
   agreement with the centrist Institutional Revolutionary Party (as he
   did with reforms of pensions and taxes in 2007), he will "put at risk
   his legitimacy". Certainly there would be protests. But weighed
   against declining oil revenues, that is something Mr Calderón may be
   inclined to risk.


   Too much confronting and voting, too little governing

   ON TAKING office as president last year, Evo Morales, a radical
   socialist of Andean Indian descent, promised to "refound" Bolivia on
   more democratic lines by means of a new constitution. But far from
   offering Bolivia a new start, the constitutional rewrite threatens to
   prolong a political confrontation that has seen two presidents
   overthrown since 2003.

   At a marathon 16-hour session held at a university in the highland
   city of Oruro on December 9th, a rump of the constituent assembly (164
   of its 255 members, most supporters of Mr Morales) rubber-stamped all
   of the 411 clauses of the new charter (bar one on landholding). But
   the opposition boycotted the session; it claims the document is
   illegal, since it was not approved by the required two-thirds majority
   of the assembly. Legal or not, the government's plan is to submit the
   document to a referendum next year.

   Mr Morales's followers say the new constitution will give more rights
   to indigenous Bolivians. It recognises no fewer than 37 official
   languages and grants autonomy to indigenous communities. They call the
   opposition a racist "oligarchy".

   Only a score of articles are controversial (though others may prove to
   be expensive). Opponents worry in particular about the weakening of
   property rights and a greater role for the state in the economy; about
   giving traditional, community justice equal status to the formal
   courts; and about judges being popularly elected rather than being
   appointed by a two-thirds majority of Congress as at present. They
   also want more explicit guarantees of regional autonomy.

   Narrow though the differences seem, the constitution is only part of a
   broader political battle between two Bolivias: the poorer, mainly
   Indian western highlands still revere Mr Morales, while the opposition
   is led by the regional prefects of the more prosperous eastern
   departments. They accuse the president of stirring up racial conflict
   in a country where many people have been happy enough to define
   themselves as mestizo (of mixed race).

   The opposition has had the upper hand for much of the past few months.
   Through political miscalculation, Mr Morales has driven the
   departments of Cochabamba and Chuquisaca into the opposition camp;
   even the prefect of La Paz was critical of the way the constitution
   was approved. Five regional governments plan unilaterally to declare
   autonomy on December 15th.

   The opposition also objects to the government's efforts to remove
   three of the five judges on the Constitutional Tribunal, and to Mr
   Morales's reliance on Venezuela's Hugo Chávez, who has provided the
   government with cash and advisers. On December 6th a mob stoned a
   Venezuelan aircraft which landed at Riberalta, in the northern jungle.

   But some of the prefects, too, seem to be overplaying their hand, by
   threatening separatism. "The government has to choose between
   autonomous departments within the nation, or new countries for
   neighbours," says Mario Cossío, the prefect of Tarija. Along with his
   colleagues from Santa Cruz, Beni and Cochabamba, Mr Cossío went to
   Washington, DC, earlier this month to press the Organisation of
   American States to intervene. This has annoyed the armed forces.

   Mr Morales has responded by challenging the opposition to a sort of
   duel. He is proposing recall referendums for himself and the prefects.
   One way or another, Bolivians may have a lot of voting to do in 2008.
   That may be an effort to distract attention from everyday problems,
   such as fuel shortages (caused by mismanagement by the state oil
   company), rising inflation and a lack of jobs. Mr Morales enjoyed
   widespread sympathy at home and abroad when he took office. He risks
   squandering much of that by seeking confrontation rather than the
   political consensus he needs to improve the lot of poorer Bolivians.


   A police anti-graft show


   THE biggest celebrity in Brazil these days is not a football star or a
   telenovela heroine but the federal police force. In a string of
   spectacular operations with melodramatic names, the police have
   recently caught judges taking bribes to keep gambling halls in
   business, congressmen arranging the purchase of ambulances at inflated
   prices and a retailer smuggling in luxury goods. The latest is
   "Operation Razor", an investigation into fraudulent public works that
   has cost the energy minister his job, implicated a dozen legislators,
   embarrassed several state governors and now threatens Renan Calheiros,
   the president of the Senate, an important ally of President Luiz
   Inácio Lula da Silva.

   All this makes Brazil look ever-more corrupt. But it may be simply
   that the authorities are getting better at detecting the rot. Lula's
   government lost its corruption-fighting credibility two years ago,
   when it emerged that his Workers' Party was paying bribes in exchange
   for votes in Congress. But also on his watch the Federal Police have
   turned tigerish, often to the government's embarrassment. Operation
   Razor has implicated nine parties, most of them Lula's allies. The
   government's audit watchdog, the Controladoria-Geral da União (CGU),
   has been strengthened. "This government seems to be more corrupt
   because it uncovered the muck," Jorge Hage, the CGU's chief, claimed
   recently.

   Operation Razor was a typical Federal-Police production, using tapped
   telephones and hidden-camera footage to accuse politicians, officials
   and businessmen of directing public contracts to a builder with a
   penchant for overcharging and leaving projects unfinished. Rather than
   deliver electricity to the poor, the firm allegedly left them in the
   dark; an unfinished bridge shelters an al fresco pool hall in the
   northeastern state of Maranhão.

   Such sting operations may be dramatic, but sadly the courts are not
   matching the police's vigour. No one accused of selling over-priced
   ambulances or paying stipends to congressmen has been convicted.
   Scandals trigger a flurry of temporary arrests--more than 4,000 in
   Federal Police operations since 2003. After that, suspects can count
   on Brazil's overburdened and inefficient judiciary to keep them out of
   jail.

   The costs of corruption are huge. One study found that in districts
   with fewer than 450,000 inhabitants--90% of the total--a tenth of the
   money transferred by the federal government was gobbled up by graft.
   The latest scandal may slow the government's ambitious infrastructure
   spending programme, centred on energy projects. The weakening of Mr
   Calheiros dents the government's influence in the Senate, where its
   majority is slim. "This is starting to take over the congressional
   agenda," says Alexandre Marinis of Mosaico Economia Política, a
   consultancy.

   With Congress lie some of the solutions as well as much of the
   problem. It is rethinking the practice of allowing congressmen and
   parties to insert pet projects into the budget, which the executive
   can then approve as a way to buy legislative support. Some want a
   reform of politics to make congressmen more accountable to voters and
   to ban private donations in election campaigns. There are calls for a
   law to implement the constitutional right to freedom of information.

   Even the Federal Police has not emerged unscathed from its own
   investigations. Two senior officers were asked to step down
   temporarily this week after allegations that they had interfered in
   earlier inquiries that threatened their colleagues. Details of
   Operation Razor were leaked to the press, some via a DVD with the
   soundtrack of "The Godfather". Congress is mulling ways to guarantee
   the secrecy of such investigations. The backlash may dim the Federal
   Police's star power.


   In a chart accompanying our story on Mexico's oil industry
   ("[3]Running just to stand still", December 22nd), we mistakenly
   measured oil reserves in trillions, instead of billions, of barrels.
   Sorry. This error has been corrected online.


   Another hostage debacle


   FOR four days, several Venezuelan helicopters and an international
   reception committee including Néstor Kirchner, Argentina's former
   president, and Oliver Stone, a Hollywood filmmaker, waited at the
   airport in Villavicencio, a town in the Colombian lowlands, for the
   left-wing guerrillas of the FARC to fulfil a promise to release three
   of the hostages they have held for years. In Caracas, Hugo Chávez,
   Venezuela's leftist president, to whom the FARC had made the pledge,
   stood by with the captives' relatives. But this bizarre show ended
   without a denouement on New Year's Eve, and with Mr Chávez and his
   entourage embarrassed.

   The FARC told him they could not hand over the three
   hostages--Consuelo González and Clara Rojas, both politicians, and Ms
   Rojas's three year-old son, Emmanuel, born in captivity--because of
   nearby operations by the Colombian army designed to sabotage the
   release.

   Álvaro Uribe, Colombia's president, flew to Villavicencio to insist
   that the army had stood aside. The FARC were lying, he said: its
   commanders aborted the release when they found out that they no longer
   held Emmanuel, whose father was a guerrilla. Officials believe that
   they have located the boy in Bogotá, and say he was handed over for
   foster care in an isolated jungle town in 2005. They are carrying out
   DNA tests to confirm this. If these prove the government's contention,
   the FARC have made a fool of Mr Chávez, as well as themselves.

   In all the FARC hold some 750 hostages. They want to swap 45 of them,
   including Ingrid Betancourt, a politician of dual Colombian and French
   nationality, and three American defence contractors, for jailed
   guerrillas. But they have demanded that the government remove troops
   from two municipalities to allow talks. Mr Uribe, whose unbending
   policies have improved security in Colombia, refuses to do this.

   Pressed both by Colombians and by France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy,
   to strike a deal, Mr Uribe in August accepted the mediation of Mr
   Chávez, only to reject it again in November because of the Venezuelan
   leader's political grandstanding. He may feel vindicated in his
   mistrust of the guerrillas and of his neighbour. But the fate of the
   hostages will continue to dog him.


                                                            Claudio Munoz

                               Claudio Munoz

   Stephen Harper's minority Conservative government is in need of an
   overhaul


   JUNE has not been a good month for Stephen Harper, the Canadian prime
   minister. At the G8 summit in Germany his record on foreign aid was
   singled out for special criticism by two Irish rock stars with
   planet-saving ambitions, Bono and Bob Geldof. His return to Canada was
   blighted by the loss of a Conservative MP, bounced from the party's
   caucus for opposing the budget, and by a confrontation caught on
   camera with an 80-year-old widow, who accused him of lying about
   extending veterans' benefits. The government's much-vaunted green plan
   was denounced as ineffectual by a prominent think-tank usually
   sympathetic to the Conservative cause. And as Parliament limped toward
   its summer recess this week, two angry premiers descended on Ottawa to
   castigate the prime minister for supposedly breaking his word to them
   on financial transfers to their provinces.

   It is a far cry from six months ago, when Mr Harper was riding high in
   the polls and appeared poised to call an election that would turn his
   governing Conservative minority into a majority. After one year in
   power, he had largely kept five narrow campaign promises and could
   convincingly argue the need for a new mandate. But the chance
   disappeared as public support for the Conservatives, which peaked
   after the launch of a generous budget in March, quickly dropped back
   into minority territory, where it remains.

   Such a litany of woes might be expected to worry a party that holds
   only 124 of the 308 seats in the House of Commons (there are 100
   Liberals, 49 Bloc Québécois, 29 New Democrats, four independents and
   two vacant seats). Yet Mr Harper continues to exude confidence.

   There are two main reasons for this. One is that although the wheels
   appear to be coming off the Tory motor, which was only ever designed
   for a short race, the opposition parties are having trouble even
   starting their engines. The second is the insouciance of ordinary
   Canadians, who are benefiting from a strong economy and record low
   unemployment. There is really not a lot troubling the nation, says
   Darrell Bricker, a pollster; Canadians have never been more
   optimistic.

   This is not what the Liberals want to hear. They continue to hammer
   the government for its handling of Canada's military mission in
   Afghanistan, and its weak plan to clean up the environment. But they
   are hamstrung by their own record. It was a Liberal government that
   first sent troops to Afghanistan in 2002. They were also responsible
   for a much-criticised deal in which prisoners captured by Canadian
   forces were handed over to Afghan troops and then allegedly tortured.
   Their position is equally weak on the environmental front. Having
   signed the Kyoto protocol, they did little to meet its stringent
   targets for emissions reductions.

   Indeed, all three opposition leaders have problems. Stéphane Dion,
   chosen by the Liberals last December, remains largely unknown outside
   his Quebec base. Gilles Duceppe of the Bloc Québécois is suffering
   from a self-inflicted blow after announcing his departure for
   provincial politics this spring, only to change his mind within 24
   hours. And Jack Layton of the leftist New Democrats seems powerless to
   stop an erosion of party support in favour of the Greens, even though
   this is a fringe party that has yet to get a member of parliament.

   Although all this is grist for the political mill on Parliament Hill,
   it seems to leave the rest of Canada virtually untouched. Consumer
   spending remains strong, with house prices shattering all records in
   May. Unemployment at 6.1% is at a 33-year low. Even the beleaguered
   manufacturing industry, battered by a high dollar and competition with
   China, has staged a rebound. The economy is "worrisomely good", says
   Philip Cross, chief economic analyst at Statistics Canada, the
   national statistical agency.

   Foreign investors appear to share that opinion and are snapping up
   Canadian companies in record numbers. This has prompted a debate about
   whether corporate Canada is being "hollowed out". Many wonder whether
   Canada's corporate bosses are sufficiently aggressive. But even this
   debate is taken as a sign of economic strength; only good times allow
   the luxury of navel-gazing.

   With an early election in no one's interest, the government has no
   choice but to set a new course for the long haul. That involves making
   peace with the provinces and those segments of the business community
   who feel bruised by unexpected tax measures in the last budget. It
   also requires a new plan of action to replace the former five
   priorities.

   Hugh Segal, the Conservative senator who helped co-ordinate the last
   election campaign, is sceptical about the need for grand visions. What
   is required, he says, are policies to address the big challenges like
   immigration, trade, corporate tax and the environment. Tax cuts in
   particular would reassure the government's core supporters, based
   mainly in the western provinces, that the administration they helped
   to elect still believes in smaller government and lower taxes. Tory
   efforts to win votes in Quebec by lavishing money on the province and
   promoting green policies have led to disillusionment among some
   westerners, who have long felt estranged from the central government.

   The Tories probably had these supporters in mind when they decided to
   sponsor a racing car on Canada's NASCAR circuit this summer. Although
   not environmentally friendly--the cars guzzle petrol--the sport
   appeals to the ordinary working Canadians whose interests Mr Harper
   frequently invokes. Perhaps the prime minister will even attend.
   Watching a finely tuned engine whiz around the track might inspire him
   to rev up his own sputtering government machine.


   In our story last week on Mexico's National Autonomous University
   ([3]"A doctor takes charge") we wrongly stated that it is the only
   Latin American university to be ranked by Britain's Times Higher
   Education Supplement in the top 200 in the world. The University of
   São Paulo and the University of Campinas, both in Brazil, are ranked
   175 and 177 respectively. Apologies.


                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   Lower oil prices threaten Hugo Chávez's expensive revolution. But he
   is not about to run out of cash soon 


   HE LOOKS unstoppable. Since his sweeping victory in an election in
   December, Venezuela's leftist president, Hugo Chávez, has stepped on
   the revolutionary accelerator. Parliament this week gave him the power
   to legislate by decree for 18 months. A committee of his supporters is
   drafting a constitutional reform to turn Venezuela into an avowedly
   socialist country, and to allow the president to stand for re-election
   indefinitely. "Nothing can stop the revolution!" proclaim full-page
   advertisements in the newspapers, adorned with the newly-minted red
   star of Mr Chávez's "Bolivarian socialism". Nothing, that is, except
   perhaps a decline in the price of oil, on which the government depends
   for nearly half its revenue.

   It has been Mr Chávez's extraordinary good fortune that the price of
   oil increased more than sixfold since he took office in 1999 to its
   peak last year. That has allowed him to ramp up public spending. With
   private investors scared off by controls and Mr Chávez's socialist
   talk, it is this spending binge that helped the economy recover after
   an opposition-led two-month general strike in 2002-03 and has since
   fuelled rapid economic growth (see chart).

   So a lower oil price threatens economic growth, and with it Mr
   Chávez's popularity. Already, official projections and independent
   forecasts suggest the rate of growth may halve this year (but to a
   still-healthy 5%). Venezuelan crude, much of which is heavy and
   sulphurous, sells for about $10 less than lighter benchmark crudes
   such as Brent and West Texas Intermediate. Last year the average price
   for the Venezuelan "basket" of crudes was $56 a barrel. Last month,
   that figure was about $46. Any further fall might start to constrain
   Mr Chávez's ability to spend freely at home and abroad.

   The 2007 budget is conservatively based on an average price for the
   Venezuelan basket of $29. But it is also based on average oil
   production of around 3.4m barrels a day (b/d). Neither of these
   figures bears much relation to reality and nor does the budget itself.
   Independent analysts, including OPEC and the International Energy
   Agency, believe the true production figure to be around 2.5m b/d. To
   complicate matters further, some of the oil is sold at a discount as
   part of Mr Chávez's strategy to win influence abroad, and 100,000 b/d
   is more or less donated to Cuba.

   In contrast, total government spending last year was a third higher
   than originally budgeted. That pattern is likely to be repeated this
   year. "Quasi-fiscal" or off-budget spending, involving the diversion
   of oil revenues and the central bank's reserves into funds directly
   controlled by the president, is large and increasing.

   Mr Chávez has a large piggy-bank he can draw on. The forthcoming
   constitutional reform is likely to strip the central bank of its last
   vestiges of autonomy. Between them, the bank's reserves and the
   resources of the National Development Fund total around $50 billion--a
   similar amount to this year's official budget.

   So even if oil prices remain below their 2006 levels, nobody expects
   the bottom to fall out of the economy this year. But Mr Chávez needs
   not just to maintain public spending but to increase it if he is to
   satisfy the popular expectations he has whipped up at home, and to
   fulfil the pledges of aid he has made to friends abroad. In the past
   few weeks alone, he has promised to build 200,000 houses in Nicaragua
   and loan $1 billion to Ecuador, for example.

   The economy is showing some signs of strain. The inflation rate, at
   17% last year, was the highest in Latin America--even though
   Venezuela's currency is overvalued. Despite the oil bonanza, the
   government has run a fiscal deficit in most of Mr Chávez's time in
   power: this year that deficit may reach 3% of GDP.

   The president seems to be aware of the problems. He has urged OPEC to
   cut oil output further, to set a floor for benchmark prices of $50. On
   January 21st he announced his intention to increase petrol prices for
   the first time since he came to power. Petrol costs less than 5 cents
   a litre in Venezuela at the official exchange rate, but raising the
   price is politically sensitive. The government also plans tax
   increases. Officials insist that plans to nationalise the
   telecommunications and electricity industries, announced last month,
   will not trigger a fall in tax revenues, though opponents doubt that.

   The oil price has crept back up over the past fortnight after a sharp
   fall. It may well rise further. Even if it does not, few expect the
   benchmark price to fall to its levels of 2003, let alone 1999. But if
   prices stay at their levels of the past month, some economists believe
   that Venezuela's economy will struggle. "There's a sustainability
   problem," says Luis Zambrano, an economist at the Catholic University
   in Caracas. "More and more spending is needed to produce a
   [percentage] point of economic growth." What will lubricate the
   revolution when the oil bonanza ends?

