
   An early foray into telephone diplomacy


   HE IS a busy man, what with the White House to win, but Barack Obama
   can still make time to lend his niceness to places that need it.
   Kenya, the home of his late father, is in turmoil. The president, Mwai
   Kibaki, says he won a surprise re-election last month. The opposition
   leader, Raila Odinga, says Mr Kibaki cheated.

   There is ample evidence of foul play. In several places, on-the-spot
   counts showed Mr Odinga winning, but the results were changed before
   being announced nationally. Mr Odinga's tribe, the Luo, are furious.
   Many have taken up arms. At least 500 people have been killed, some of
   them while seeking shelter in churches, and 200,000-plus have fled
   their homes.

   In between campaign stops, Mr Obama is trying to help. He broadcast an
   appeal for calm on Voice of America. "Despite irregularities in the
   vote tabulation, now is not the time to throw [Kenya's] strong
   democracy away," he said. "Now is the time for this terrible violence
   to end." He spoke with Mr Odinga by telephone, urging him to meet Mr
   Kibaki without preconditions to effect a reconciliation. He has
   apparently tried to get in touch with Mr Kibaki, too, but without
   success.

   Mr Obama's father was of the same tribe as the opposition leader. Mr
   Odinga even claims to be related to the Obamas, though Mr Obama has
   not confirmed this. Mr Obama's loyalties, however, are post-tribal: he
   wants, characteristically, both sides to sit down and talk about it.
   Kenyans will at least listen to him. They usually prefer their leaders
   somewhat older than Mr Obama, but they will make an exception for
   someone who still has a chance of soon becoming the most powerful man
   in the world. Whether he can bring peace in his spare time is another
   question, though. Luos joke bitterly that America will have a Luo
   president before Kenya does.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

                             Room for only one

   Far from Iowa, two would-be presidents are biding their time 


   AS THE other candidates battled frostbite and each other in Iowa, two
   men were conspicuously absent. Rudy Giuliani was planning to be in
   Florida on January 3rd, the day of Iowa's first-in-the-nation
   caucuses. Michael Bloomberg, having popped over to Bali before
   Christmas to address the UN conference on climate change, is about to
   give another big speech on January 7th in Oklahoma, this time about
   non-partisan politics.

   Neither man had any chance of winning Iowa. Mr Giuliani is too
   metropolitan for Iowa Republicans, with his divorces, his tolerance of
   abortion and his easy friendship with gays. Mr Bloomberg is not even
   on the ballot. Yet both men could shape the presidential race.

   Mr Giuliani may be weak in the early-voting states, but he leads
   national polls of Republican voters, albeit increasingly narrowly. His
   lead may disappear entirely if early victories lend momentum to a
   rival. But, for now, he is still the man to beat.

   His strategy is a risky one. He is not quite sitting out the first six
   races, but he hints that they hardly matter. If he does well in Iowa,
   Wyoming, New Hampshire, Michigan, Nevada or South Carolina, fine. But
   the first race that counts, his people suggest, will be on January
   29th in Florida, where he leads. Brent Seaborn, a strategist for Mr
   Giuliani, predicts that his boss will win the Sunshine State and come
   to "Super-Duper Tuesday" (February 5th, when more than 20 states will
   vote), with more delegates lined up behind him than any other
   candidate. Mr Giuliani would then rely on his popularity in big
   coastal states such as New York and California, where voters are less
   easily shocked by his private life, to propel him to the nomination.

   This is optimistic, but not absurd. The Republican field is
   splintered. If the early primaries produce no clear front-runner, Mr
   Giuliani's national celebrity could see him through. He is a deft
   campaigner, admitting to flaws, while sparing audiences details
   (adultery, dodgy friends, apparent conflicts of interest) that they
   can look up on the web. He trumpets his two strengths: crime fell
   sharply while he was mayor of New York, and he kept cool when the city
   was attacked by terrorists. Often, he conflates these into a single
   unified theory of toughness in the face of bad guys. The world is
   dangerous, as Benazir Bhutto's assassination has reminded voters.

   But his steel is starting to look tarnished. To compensate for his
   social liberalism, which repels many Republican primary voters, he has
   hammed up his tough-guy act to such an extreme that it could harm him
   in a general election. Swing voters mostly feel that eight years of
   bellicosity is plenty. And although his mix of fiscal conservatism and
   social liberalism appeals to many, even social liberals gag at reports
   that he billed taxpayers for security expenses incurred during
   adulterous trysts. The recent indictment on corruption charges of
   Bernard Kerik, whom he appointed as New York's police chief, is not
   helping either.

   If Mr Giuliani fizzles, Mr Bloomberg is a likely beneficiary. He is a
   less colourful figure. Whereas Mr Giuliani rescued New York from
   dysfunction, his successor as mayor has merely continued to run it
   well. Like Mr Giuliani, Mr Bloomberg is fiscally conservative and
   socially liberal. But unlike Mr Giuliani, he is a billionaire, so he
   can fund his own (undeclared and semi-denied) presidential campaign.

   Rather than stretching uncomfortably to woo primary-voting activists,
   Mr Bloomberg can be himself. If he runs, it will be as a moderate
   third-party candidate. Unlike many Republicans, he favours swift
   action to curb climate change. Unlike the main Democrats, he admits
   that a carbon tax, though unpopular, would be the best way to do it.
   As a third-party candidate, he could offer sensible policies on
   immigration, gun control, poverty and more.

   If Hillary Clinton and Mr Giuliani are the Democratic and Republican
   nominees, there will scarcely be room for another New Yorker in the
   race. But if one party picks a base-pleasing populist (say, Mike
   Huckabee or John Edwards), Mr Bloomberg may see open ground for a
   pragmatic centrist. Even as he touts the virtues of non-partisanship
   in Oklahoma, he will be keeping a close eye on Iowa.


   How much will the Bay State's plan for universal health coverage cost?

   WHEN Massachusetts forged ahead with a plan for universal health
   coverage for all its citizens, many were sceptical. It will soon be
   clear whether the doubters were right. The plan faces its first big
   test this month: uninsured residents must sign up for a health plan by
   the end of the year or be fined.

   Early signs suggest the plan is going well. Some critics had argued
   that it would not achieve universal coverage because the penalties for
   non-compliance (about $220, though this figure will rise sharply next
   year) were too small, but this week state officials announced that
   some 300,000 had already signed up. That is roughly half of the
   state's uninsured population, reckoned to be between 500,000 and
   700,000. However, many of those who have recently signed up are poorer
   people whose new insurance is being subsidised, so the real test is
   yet to come.

   Another worry has been that the scheme will "crowd out" the private
   sector by encouraging employers to drop coverage. Here too the
   evidence is positive, though tentative. Several surveys of employers
   suggest that very few so far (only 3% according to one poll) have
   stopped covering their workers.

   The news on cost is less encouraging. Over the long haul, universal
   coverage schemes are supposed to reduce costs (see [3]article).
   Another reason to think cost rises would slow down under the
   Massachusetts scheme is the "Connector", a government-created and
   partly-subsidised market-place for insurance products that aims to
   beg, bully and badger health-care providers and insurers into
   containing costs.

   That is a fine theory, but in practice, concedes Jonathan Gruber, a
   professor at MIT and an architect of the state's reform plan, "We're
   struggling with this." Next year's insurance premiums are likely to
   rise by 10-12%, confirms James Roosevelt, head of the organisation
   representing the state's health plans. Officials running the new
   health-reform effort this week declared grandly that costs must not
   increase by more than 5% next year--but, as Mr Roosevelt observes,
   that seems "more hopeful than likely". Mr Gruber explains that the
   state can influence rates for those who get subsidies, but says that
   commercial insurers can do pretty much what they like about rates for
   the rest of the population.

   If costs continue to soar, the state will not be able to afford this
   scheme for long, and it will become unpopular. Mindful of the brewing
   storm, the state's insurers are launching a charm offensive. Mr
   Roosevelt's group promises much greater transparency in insurance
   pricing and wants hospitals to do the same. Will that be enough?
   Sunlight is a powerful disinfectant--but it may meet its match in
   health-care inflation.


   A good cause, but a bad policy

   THERE is a new price to be paid for looking at naked women in Texas.
   On January 1st the state's strip clubs began imposing a $5 surcharge
   for each visitor. The "pole tax," as it is commonly called, is
   expected to bring the state an additional $40m in revenue each year.
   Most of the proceeds will go to programmes that support victims of
   sexual assault.

   Helping rape victims is obviously an excellent idea, and the measure
   was passed by the Texas legislature easily last year. But it is
   controversial in some quarters. Club owners, in particular, think they
   are being shaken down and vilified despite providing a perfectly legal
   service, and are already sounding a little defensive. Commercials for
   The Lodge, in Dallas, boast that its customers enjoy "women, manly
   steaks, cigars, and women." In light of the new tax a co-owner has
   noted, rather less laddishly, that the club also raises money for
   charity via car washes. Smaller clubs are worried that their patrons
   cannot or will not pony up five measly dollars, a prediction that may
   prove true but is certainly rather depressing.

   Another gripe is that the tax implies an unfair link between club
   patronage and sexual violence, though no evidence to support this has
   been presented. State representative Ellen Cohen, who sponsored the
   legislation, argued that connecting the two is fair because both strip
   clubs and sex crimes objectify women. And apparently a majority of
   Texas legislators were comfortable with that explanation. In 2004, in
   contrast, Governor Rick Perry proposed taxing strip clubs to pay for
   public schools. The idea was considered inappropriate and it went
   nowhere.

   Such targeted taxes seem to be in vogue at the moment. Gavin Newsom,
   the mayor of San Francisco, recently proposed that retailers pay a fee
   for selling sugar-laden fizzy drinks. The revenue would fund a city
   initiative to encourage healthy eating and exercise. Last year's
   proposed expansion of the State Children's Health Insurance Programme
   would have been funded by increased tobacco taxes (though the
   connection here also seems rather a stretch, since not that many
   children smoke; George Bush vetoed it anyway). In Wisconsin, a state
   legislator wants to raise more money for the juvenile criminal justice
   system via a tax on video games.

   Critics say that all of these measures are punitive. Louche behaviour,
   after all, is not a crime. But its practitioners have had a hard time
   making their case. Last month opponents of the pole tax filed for a
   temporary injunction against it. They argued that nude dancing is a
   type of expression and that its free exercise should therefore not be
   inhibited. The judge was unimpressed.


   The Manchurian candidate
   "The Muslims have said they plan on destroying the US from the inside
   out, what better way to start than at the highest level--through the
   president of the United States, one of their own!!!!"

   Two volunteers for the Clinton campaign have resigned over forwarding
   e-mails saying that Barack Obama is a Muslim sleeper-agent.
   [3]Politico.com. December 5th 

   School days
   "I know that folks were rifling through my kindergarten papers. I'm
   going to be disclosing them tomorrow. It will show that I experimented
   with colouring outside the lines. I was pulling on pigtails."

   Mr Obama continues to make hay with the Clinton campaign's excesses.
   [4]ABCNews.com, December 12th

   Free will
   "I'm not here to tell you what to think. I got some sense. I know the
   difference between a book club and this seminal moment in our
   history."

   Oprah Winfrey campaigning last weekend for Mr Obama. 

   Job seeker
   "Since I'm from Georgia, I'll say the opposite of Sherman...If
   drafted, I would run, and if nominated, I would serve."

   Newt Gingrich wants to be vice-president. "This Week", ABC, December
   9th 

   Food pyramid
   "Carrots. I just don't like carrots. I banned them from the governor's
   mansion when I was governor of Arkansas because I could."

   Mike Huckabee discusses his most disliked food. Other candidates are
   equally opposed to vegetables; mushrooms are particularly unpopular.
   Associated Press, December 6th 

   Life's disappointments
   "Voters are going to say, `I want to get my Christmas shopping done.'
   They're going to go to their mailboxes hoping for an invitation to a
   cocktail party, and instead get a campaign mailing."

   Donna Brazile, a Democratic strategist, on why most campaigns will
   take a break over Christmas. Des Moines Register, December 10th 

   Southern hospitality
   "He's masquerading as a good ole boy."

   Jim Hanks, chairman of the South Carolina League of the South, objects
   to Tennessean Fred Thompson's lack of support for reintroducing the
   Confederate flag. [5]CNN.com, December 5th

   Insane clown posse
   "These people are crazy--crazy in a good way."

   Ron Paul's son on his father's supporters. [6]Washingtonpost.com,
   December 10th 


   As voters weary of the front-runners, what a chance for Al Gore

   ENOUGH already. The primaries are 11 months away and the race is
   already growing stale. The citizens of Iowa and New Hampshire are
   longing for the day when they can visit Denny's without having to meet
   Hillary or Rudy. And the press is busy recycling the same old stories.
   Can Barack Obama run for president and give up smoking at the same
   time? Will Hillary hand her Senate seat to Bill if she wins? Is
   America ready for a Mormon president? Or a black? Or a woman? Or a man
   who once dressed as Marilyn Monroe?

   There is no shortage of money or ideas: the candidates' treasure
   chests are overflowing and the think-tanks churn out policy papers.
   But there is a severe shortage of attention. People will not be able
   to watch the same soap opera, endlessly repeated on 24-hour cable news
   and pored over in the blogosphere, for months on end without getting
   sick of the main characters.

   Which means that there is a huge opportunity for somebody to arrive
   late and steal the show. The late entrant will not only have the
   advantage of being a fresh face. He or she could also change the whole
   dynamic of the race, gaining enough momentum to storm through Iowa and
   New Hampshire.

   Step forward Al Gore. Mr Gore has enough of a national profile to
   command instant credibility. He has rich friends to finance him. He
   will also command plenty of attention in his own right over the next
   few months: his film "An Inconvenient Truth" could win an Oscar for
   best documentary on Sunday, and he may be up for the Nobel peace prize
   in the autumn.

   Mr Gore is the ideal candidate for the Democratic stalwarts who turn
   out to vote in the primaries. He came out strongly against invading
   Iraq. He has spent the past six years warning the world about global
   warming. And he was robbed of victory in 2000 by the man whom the
   Democrats loathe above all others. What better way of wiping out the
   Bush era than replacing him with the man who should have been
   president?

   Mr Gore is adamant that he does not want to run again. But will he be
   able to resist? It would be one of the great dramas of American
   political history. And James Carville, keen observer of politicians,
   says that, for them, running for president is rather like having sex
   for normal people: it is not something that you do just once if you
   have any say in the matter.


   An annoying self-publicist may enliven a debate about America's health
   system

   WILL America solve its health-care problems by moving to a
   government-run health system like the one in Britain? The notion seems
   absurd given the spectacular failure of efforts by Bill and Hillary
   Clinton to promote the idea over a decade ago. Even Mrs Clinton
   herself no longer advocates Hillarycare.

   Yet the issue will not go away: politicians as different as Arnold
   Schwarzenegger, Mitt Romney and John Edwards keep plugging away at it.
   And now there is "Sicko", the latest documentary by Michael Moore, a
   filmmaker known for tackling thorny political issues with leftist
   vigour. The film, which featured at the Cannes Film Festival last
   weekend, goes on general release in June--and its subject is the
   inequities of America's health system.

   Mr Moore, true to form, has orchestrated publicity stunts that would
   make the circus promoter P.T. Barnum proud. In making his film, he
   took a group of people who had volunteered to help after the attacks
   of September 11th, 2001, but who could not get proper health care
   afterward, to Cuba. He first tried getting them help at the American
   military base at Guantánamo Bay, where officials claim accused
   al-Qaeda detainees are getting outstanding free health care, but was
   rebuffed; he then took the Americans to Havana, where Cuban
   authorities were only too happy to provide treatment for a pittance.

   Fred Thompson, a former senator and a Republican presidential
   aspirant, has publicly denounced this as pandering to the thuggish
   regime of Fidel Castro. When Mr Moore responded that the senator was a
   hypocrite because he is a fan of Cuban cigars, Mr Thompson released a
   video of himself chomping a stogie and telling the filmmaker to
   consider a mental asylum. Mr Moore claims he is now the target of a
   federal investigation because his trip violated the trade embargo of
   Cuba. The film's producers declare breathlessly that they have whisked
   a copy of the film's master negative overseas to avoid confiscation by
   the evil authorities.

   Ghastly though he may be, Mr Moore has had uncommon success with his
   previous films ("Fahrenheit 9/11" earned over $200m), and "Sicko"
   looks to be another conversation starter. At least some of the antics
   will have been worth enduring if they lead to a proper debate on
   health reform, including the merits and failings of single-payer
   systems.


   California enters the fight for universal health care

   AFTER almost a year of difficult surgery, during which it occasionally
   seemed dead, California's health-care reform plan abruptly leapt out
   of bed on December 17th. Arnold Schwarzenegger, the state's Republican
   governor, agreed a bill with the Democratic majority in the
   legislature that would dramatically widen health coverage. There were
   smiles of relief all round; but the bill's prognosis is bleak.

   Like a similar but more modest measure that came into effect in
   Massachusetts this year, the bill requires almost all Californians to
   have health insurance, beginning in 2010. It also extends health
   coverage to the children of illegal immigrants. There will be
   subsidies for those who earn less than two-and-a-half times the
   federal poverty level, or $42,925 for a family of three, and tax
   credits for the more affluent. This will be paid for by a tax on
   businesses that fail to provide health insurance, a levy on hospitals
   and yet more taxes for that much put-upon group, smokers.

   These levies are not, however, spelled out in the measure that passed
   this week. Since any bill that included a tax hike would have been
   blocked by California's ornery Republicans, that part must be approved
   directly by the voters next November--assuming the bill first clears
   the state Senate. Opposition, from insurance companies, small
   businesses and tobacco firms, will be fierce and well-funded.

   California's move will affect the presidential campaign. The
   Democratic candidates Hillary Clinton and John Edwards have proposed
   similar reforms, which now have a bipartisan stamp (Barack Obama is
   against forcing people to take out health insurance). Mrs Clinton has
   already borrowed Mr Schwarzenegger's line that the current system, in
   which many of the uninsured receive free health care in emergency
   rooms, is a "hidden tax".

   One problem with the bill is that it assumes health-care costs can be
   kept in check. That has not been the case so far: between 1960 and
   2005 the share of national income gobbled up by health more than
   tripled. This week the Congressional Budget Office pleaded for a more
   hard-headed approach to assessing the costs and benefits of new drugs
   and medical procedures. Britain does that rather well. But Catherine
   DeAngelis, a physician who edits the Journal of the American Medical
   Association, bristles that this risks turning her profession into a
   "business".


   Hillary Clinton no longer looks inevitable 




   ON December 8th Hillary Clinton received what should have been a boost
   from Andrew Young, one of the giants of the civil-rights movement. Mr
   Young pronounced that he wants her chief rival, Barack Obama, to be
   president--but in 2016, not 2008.

   The 46-year-old Mr Obama is just too green about the gills for the
   highest office in the land, Mr Young argued, and lacks a network of
   political allies that could sustain him in times of trouble. "To put a
   brother in there by himself is to set him up for crucifixion," he
   said. But he could not resist adding a kicker. "Bill [Clinton] is
   every bit as black as Barack--he's probably gone with more black women
   than Barack."

   Mr Young's faux pas is a small symptom of the Clinton campaign's
   troubles. Mrs Clinton's commanding leads in the make-or-break states
   of Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina have evaporated. And the
   much-vaunted Hillary machine is looking, for the moment at least, more
   Heath Robinson than Vorsprung durch Technik. The bad news keeps
   coming, and even the good news has a way of turning bad.

   Mr Obama is proving to be Mrs Clinton's perfect nightmare. He has not
   only neutralised her most compelling claim for attention--the first
   black president is a more momentous prospect than the first woman
   president. He has also shaped the race. His early entry into the
   contest forced Mrs Clinton to declare her candidacy sooner than she
   had planned. His fund-raising prowess forced her to make much more use
   of her husband than she had intended. Last weekend stadium-sized
   crowds turned up to watch Oprah Winfrey, the only woman in America who
   can turn "Anna Karenina" into a bestseller, stumping for Mr Obama. Mrs
   Clinton was reduced to touring Iowa with her daughter, Chelsea, and
   her mother, Dorothy.

   Mrs Clinton's problems have forced her to abandon the high horse of
   inevitability for the boxing ring. Yet so far she has proved to be no
   great shakes as a pugilist. She excused her poor performance in a
   debate in Philadelphia by accusing her fellow (male) candidates of
   "piling on". This feebly suggested that she wanted to be given special
   treatment because of her gender. Then she threw a succession of wild
   punches that made her look like an amateur. The Clinton campaign's
   decision to dredge up the fact that Mr Obama had written an essay in
   kindergarten on how he wanted to be president was particularly
   misguided. What sort of person quotes a kindergarten essay against a
   rival?

   Mrs Clinton's recent troubles have raised questions about what is
   arguably her most important selling-point, her competence. The
   Clintonistas have always presented her as a woman who is "tough
   enough" to deal with anything that is thrown at her--trained in the
   Clinton wars of the 1990s and always ready with a counter-punch. She
   is certainly one of America's most accomplished practitioners of the
   politics of personal destruction. But the skills that she perfected
   behind the scenes seem to be far less effective when they are
   practised in the limelight.

   Same old dirty politics

   Mrs Clinton's troubles have also reminded people of what they most
   disliked about the politics of the Clinton-Bush era. "She's run what
   Washington would call a textbook campaign," Mr Obama argues. "But the
   problem is the textbook itself." This is self-serving: all campaigns
   employ the dark arts of polls, story-planting and character
   assassination, and Mr Obama is no exception. But Mrs Clinton is
   vulnerable to the charge that she uses them more than most. She is
   surrounded by veteran pollsters and lobbyists from her husband's
   administration. She seems to delight in political warfare--"Now the
   fun part starts," she stupidly declared about her battle with Mr
   Obama. And her campaign seems addicted to spin. Mr Clinton did his
   wife no favours when he recently declared, despite evidence to the
   contrary, that he had opposed the Iraq war from the start.

   Mrs Clinton's style inevitably raises questions about her character.
   Discuss her with voters and the same words keep cropping
   up--"disciplined", "robotic", "cold", "scripted", "calculating" (if
   childhoods are to be invoked, even her mother once said that "she just
   does everything she has to do to get along and get ahead"). Large
   numbers of voters regard her as slippery and untrustworthy. This
   inevitably raises questions about her electability. Mrs Clinton
   sometimes manages to lose in head-to-head polls against leading
   Republicans, despite a tidal wave of anti-Republican sentiment. A
   recent Gallup poll showed that, with 47% of people favourably disposed
   to her and 50% unfavourably disposed, she had the highest "negatives"
   of any candidate in the race, Democratic or Republican. Those
   negatives are particularly high in swing states such as Colorado.

   None of this means that the former first lady's goose is cooked. Mrs
   Clinton is still well ahead in national polls and in the often
   overlooked early state of Nevada. Americans do not necessarily feel
   that they need to like their presidents. Richard Nixon won a
   resounding victory in 1972. Nearly as many Americans disliked Bill
   Clinton as liked him when he ran for the White House. And the (just
   about) Republican front-runner, Rudy Giuliani, is hardly a likeable
   chap. Ed Koch once wrote a book about his fellow mayor simply entitled
   "Giuliani: Nasty Man".

   But Mrs Clinton's problems are slowly shifting the calculus at the
   heart of the Democratic race. Hitherto most Democrats have calculated,
   or perhaps been resigned to thinking, that she is the safest bet. The
   young Mr Obama might deliver a spectacular victory, but he might
   equally well flame out spectacularly. Mrs Clinton may always have high
   negatives but, in an anti-Republican year, she would be wily and
   experienced enough to take on the Republican machine and eke out a
   victory in the electoral college. The past few weeks have made Mr
   Obama look a bit less risky--and Mrs Clinton a lot less safe.


   For presidential candidates, the holiday season will not be restful 




   EVEN those who dislike Hillary Clinton want to hitch a ride in her
   helicopter, inevitably dubbed "the Hillacopter". With a dozen
   presidential candidates criss-crossing Iowa to scramble for support
   before the caucuses on January 3rd, everyone following them wants to
   be in several places at once. And the roads are icy.

   Parking is like curling. The main roads have been salted well, but not
   perfectly. Your correspondent spun once on black ice and saw three
   accidents. After dark, the oncoming traffic includes farm trucks with
   only one headlight. Mrs Clinton only has to dodge heckles.

   The locals grumble more about the weather than politics. In a coffee
   shop in Creston, a small town south-west of Des Moines, the customers
   form two groups: those whose electricity has been restored since a
   recent storm, and those who are still waiting. "We're living like
   cavemen," chuckles one of the staff.

   When talk does turn to politics, the mood is disgruntled. Between
   mouthfuls of syrup-soaked pancake, Dalyne Gaede laments that he can no
   longer find work. He used to help make sophisticated machinery:
   self-service cash registers for Wal-Mart and trash cans that say
   "thank you". But then he needed back surgery, and suddenly no one will
   hire him because his health insurance is too expensive.

   A triumph in Iowa can kick-start a candidate towards his party's
   nomination. Yet turnout is usually low. Out of a voting-age population
   of 2m, only 130,000 caucused in 2004. More will probably show up this
   time because both parties are competing and the races are close. On
   the Democratic side, Mrs Clinton, John Edwards and Barack Obama all
   have a shot. Mr Obama is slightly ahead, but Iowa polls are habitually
   unreliable. Among the Republicans, Mike Huckabee has opened a sizeable
   lead over Mitt Romney, but with his new prominence has come
   unaccustomed scrutiny.

   Every candidate faces a holiday season without rest. Most will
   campaign until as close to Christmas Day as they can without
   interrupting the festivities. The Democrats especially are working
   harder than ever, inflicting their friends, families and celebrity
   endorsers on hapless Iowans.

   Besides firing up their existing supporters and courting undecided
   voters, they are also trying to persuade their rivals' supporters to
   make them their second choice. Under Iowa's caucus system, voters will
   gather in some 2,000 small precincts and discuss the candidates before
   selecting their first choice. Under the Democrats' version (though not
   the Republicans') those whose candidates fail to win more than 15% or
   so of the votes in a precinct are then invited to transfer their vote
   to another, "viable", candidate. This takes time, so only the most
   motivated take part.

   Each candidate has a different style. Mrs Clinton leads her troops
   through the snow with such discipline that, had Napoleon copied it, he
   might have conquered Russia. Other Democrats' campaign staff are happy
   to answer questions. In Des Moines, Jim Mowrer, an Iraq veteran, says
   he supports Joe Biden because he is the only Democrat with a plan to
   quit Iraq without leaving chaos behind. The Clintonistas beside him
   say they are not authorised to talk to the press.

   At Mrs Clinton's campaign office in Creston, the lone staffer consults
   his boss by telephone. His boss tells him not to reveal anything. Not
   even his personal reasons for liking Mrs Clinton? No. Not even where a
   guy can get a cup of coffee in Creston? The staffer hesitates before
   divulging this potentially sensitive information.

   At Mr Obama's campaign office in the same town, the welcome is warmer:
   a seat, a cup of coffee and a list of local Obama-ites to call. Karl
   Knock, the chairman of a local bank, says he likes the openness of Mr
   Obama's campaign. The candidate does not simply issue orders; he asks
   questions. America needs a new leader who is not entrenched in old
   battles, he says.

   Mr Edwards, a former trial lawyer and vice-presidential nominee, is
   running the angriest Democratic campaign. Though his manner is smooth
   and smiley, he rails without cease against the greedy corporations
   that supposedly make ordinary Americans' lives miserable. He lies
   third in the polls in Iowa, but his tireless stumping in remote
   hamlets might conceivably allow him to snatch a victory.

   Mrs Clinton is still the woman to beat, however. Other candidates
   pander. She does her homework and then micropanders. For voters who
   fret about the environment and globalisation, she praises solar power.
   Someone has to screw those solar panels on the roof, and that's a job
   that can't be outsourced, she tells a crowd in a fire station in
   Shenandoah, near the Nebraska border.

   Are you worried about violent video games? So is Mrs Clinton. They can
   lead, she says, to horrors such as the recent massacre in a mall in
   Omaha. Mrs Clinton knows the name of the local man who was injured
   there, of course. She's really intelligent, agree several members of
   the audience. But one couple say Bill Richardson, the governor of New
   Mexico, is more qualified. A paranoid local lawyer mutters about Vince
   Foster, a friend of Mrs Clinton's who killed himself in 1993 but whom
   conspiracy theorists say was murdered.

   The Republicans' Mrs Clinton is Mitt Romney, an ex-governor of
   Massachusetts. He, too, faces a younger, more charismatic threat. Mr
   Romney gives PowerPoint presentations; Mr Huckabee airs an ad wishing
   Iowans a merry Christmas.

   Mr Huckabee has ethical problems (he accepted a ton of gifts when he
   was governor of Arkansas), eccentric policies (scrap income taxes,
   make America self-sufficient in food) and a feeble grasp of world
   affairs. But his verbal dexterity and years as a Baptist preacher
   allow him to dodge almost any awkward question with a Biblical
   allusion. He is joyfully backed by evangelicals and home-schoolers.
   Eric Woolson, his campaign manager in Iowa, cannot understand why the
   media harp on about his strong support among those who go to church
   every week. "Everyone I know goes to church every week," he says.

   A loss in Iowa could cripple Mr Romney, so he is fighting back hard.
   His television spots accuse Mr Huckabee of being soft on crime (his
   faith led him to pardon many criminals when he was governor) and
   illegal immigration. This is risky. Iowans don't like negative
   campaigning, says Cary Covington, a politics professor at the
   University of Iowa. Meanwhile, Rudy Giuliani and John McCain, two
   Republicans with no hope in Iowa but national reputations, are biding
   their time.

   For both parties, a bitter struggle looms. But actual violence has so
   far been mild. Dan Holman, who follows Mrs Clinton around waving a
   gruesome anti-abortion banner, was allegedly poked in the ribs with a
   broom handle by an elderly householder who accused him of standing on
   his property. But Mr Holman recovered and is still haranguing his
   nemesis.




   Reforming America's health-care system is a thorny election issue

   IT IS obvious to anyone that the patient is ill. But the physicians
   agree on little else: not the underlying cause, certainly not the
   appropriate course of treatment and least of all which among them is
   best qualified to administer it. As they argue, the patient just gets
   sicker.

   Health care, along with the economy in general, immigration and the
   whole alarming nexus of war, terror and security is, according to
   pretty much every poll, one of the issues that American voters
   consider most important. And next year, in both the primaries and the
   general election, it will have particular resonance. Iraq may even
   fade as an election subject, if the number of Americans killed in
   action continues to decline as a result of the "surge" of troops into
   the area around Baghdad. Meanwhile, uncertainties about the economy
   tend to feed through into a preoccupation with health care. A majority
   of Americans (around 54% last year, according to the Kaiser Family
   Foundation, a Washington, DC, think-tank) get their tax-exempt health
   insurance through their employers, so losing a job often means losing
   cover. Even for those who remain in work, tightening market conditions
   are forcing employers to downgrade the insurance they offer.

   But when it comes to health care--as opposed to the economy, or
   security--voters are at least being offered clear choices. All the
   Democratic candidates, for instance, and none of the Republicans, are
   proposing some version of universal health coverage in an attempt to
   end the anomaly whereby some 47m people, a sixth of the population of
   the world's most powerful nation, have no health insurance. A
   YouGov/Polimetrix poll for The Economist this week shows that half of
   all voters would like to see everyone get coverage, even if that means
   a tax increase, with only 36% opposed (see chart). On the campaign
   trail in New Hampshire recently John Edwards, a Democrat, won waves of
   applause every time he threatened to take away the health insurance of
   members of Congress if they did not provide something similar for all
   Americans.

   There is, however, no consensus among Democrats on how to achieve
   universal cover. In fact, health has become a lively battleground in
   the increasingly edgy war between Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama--so
   much so that Robert Reich, who was labour secretary in Bill Clinton's
   administration, publicly rebuked her this week, adding that he thinks
   Mr Obama's model for reform is better than hers. Mrs Clinton (along
   with Mr Edwards, the third-ranked Democrat, but unlike Mr Obama) has
   proposed a detailed plan that relies on a "mandate"--a legal
   requirement that everyone have an approved form of insurance, just as
   they are required to have if they drive a car.

   The idea is to make sure that younger people, who may feel they are
   unlikely to get ill and can do without cover, are required to join the
   insurance pool, making it healthier and supposedly bringing down
   premiums. They will also be more likely to get preventive treatment at
   an early stage if they do get ill, rather than becoming expensive
   emergency cases later on.

   Mr Obama's supporters contend that there are problems with this model.
   First, people often simply ignore the mandate--usually because they
   cannot afford health insurance. Subsidies are to be made available
   under the Clinton and Edwards plans: but they will not cover everyone.
   And independent voices like Robert Reischauer's at the Urban
   Institute, another Washington think-tank, complain that many of the
   complexities in both these plans have yet to be worked out. Who will
   resolve disputes, of which there are certain to be many, between
   patients and government-approved insurance providers? What if people
   default on their payments? And will costs really come down? The
   experience in the only state to run a universal mandate so far,
   Massachusetts, has not been wholly positive (see [3]article).

   And, of course, mandates are perceived as bossy, which is why
   Republicans, in particular, hate them. Mr Obama's refusal to prescribe
   one may serve him well with centrist voters with bad memories of Mrs
   Clinton's first attempt at health-care reform in 1993-94, a political
   disaster on an epic scale. Mr Obama's plan focuses on providing a
   larger pot of cash to help the uninsured take out insurance, rather
   than trying to force them to do it.

   To Republicans, the Democrats' insistence on concentrating on
   universal care is perplexing. Of the 47m uninsured, perhaps 10m are
   illegal immigrants. Of the others, many will be younger people who
   simply choose not to have insurance. Others are only uninsured
   temporarily. Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts who set
   up its universal health scheme, does not want to extend it to the
   whole country now that he is running for the Republican presidential
   nomination rather than election in a liberal state. Arnold
   Schwarzenegger, California's Republican governor, favours mandates;
   but he is not running for the top job.

   Republicans prefer to concentrate on the cost side of health
   insurance, which makes sense. Health-care costs have risen, on
   average, 2.5 percentage points faster than GDP annually for four
   decades. That means, among other things, that the costs of the
   government-funded medical programmes--Medicare for the elderly and
   Medicaid for the poor--will bust the budget unless they are radically
   reformed. The Republicans further charge that Democratic plans to stop
   insurers excluding people with pre-existing medical conditions will
   hugely increase the cost of premiums.

   Republicans focus much more closely than the Democrats do on using
   market mechanisms to bring down costs. John McCain, for instance,
   suggests allowing more competition across state borders. Along with
   Rudy Giuliani and Mr Romney, he also favours a much wider use of tax
   deductions. This would allow more people than just those lucky enough
   to have jobs that offer health insurance to benefit from what is, in
   effect, a large government subsidy. Mr Giuliani, for instance, would
   allow those without employer-provided insurance a tax deduction of
   $15,000 to help buy it.

   Voters think cost is a bigger problem than coverage. But none of the
   Republicans is stressing health to the same extent as the Democrats
   are. Maybe that is why our poll shows almost twice as many people
   prefer the Democrats on the issue.


   America's next president might, conceivably, be a Mormon. What does
   that mean?

   NEAR the edge of Temple Square in Salt Lake City is an unobtrusive
   statue of a man pulling a wooden handcart, with his family walking
   beside him. It commemorates a trek more gruelling than the tourists
   who gawp at it can imagine.

   The early Mormons were not popular. They formed an exclusive,
   polygamous community with a militia and territorial ambitions. The
   governor of Missouri, Lilburn Boggs, called for them to be
   "exterminated or driven from the state". Their prophet, Joseph Smith,
   was shot dead by a lynch mob in 1844. After his murder, his followers
   embarked on a great exodus.

   Some set off in a wagon train and founded a city by the Great Salt
   Lake in what is now Utah. Others followed. The poorest of them pulled
   handcarts from Iowa to Salt Lake City--1,300 miles (2,092km) over
   wilderness and Rocky Mountains. Many died en route. At one point,
   1,000 handcarters got stuck in the snow. Brigham Young, the prophet's
   successor, sent up a mule train from Salt Lake City to rescue them. He
   saved about 800, but the rest starved or froze to death.

   The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (to use its proper
   name) is arguably America's most important indigenous religion. It is
   a universal faith, but also "very American", reckon Richard and Joan
   Ostling, authors of the excellent "Mormon America: The Power and the
   Promise". Its history is entangled with America's. Like American
   settlers, Mormons were pioneers who travelled far for religious
   freedom. Like America, Mormonism has grown fast. Smith had 26,000
   followers when he died. Now he has more than 13m, more than half of
   them outside America. And within America, by one estimate, Mormonism
   is the fourth-largest denomination.

   As it has grown, it has moved towards the mainstream. Its leaders
   renounced polygamy in 1890. Its members, following Smith's view that
   the American constitution was divinely inspired, are patriotic and
   prone to public service. Mormons are also one of the best-behaved
   groups in America. Practising ones shun alcohol, cigarettes and even
   coffee. They work hard, marry, have lots of children and set aside an
   evening each week for quality time with the family. The 53,000
   dark-suited, white-shirted, tie-wearing Mormon missionaries who fish
   for souls around the world can seem like America personified: earnest,
   friendly, optimistic, fond of Jesus and eager to tell you about it.

                                                  [spacer.gif] [gray.gif]
                                                             [spacer.gif]
           Ruthless campaign strategists now have an incentive to slander
                                                                Mormonism
                                                             [spacer.gif]
                                                               [gray.gif]

   Yet many Americans have doubts about Mormonism. Only 53% of non-Mormon
   Americans think Mormons are Christian, despite the words "Jesus
   Christ" in the church's name. Many evangelical Protestants think them
   heretics--the ruder ones regularly heckle Mormon conferences. Some
   secular Americans voice the opposite complaint: that Mormons are too
   pious and too likely to knock on your door.

   Antipathy towards Mormons is rarer among well-educated Americans (64%
   of college graduates have a favourable view of them) and among people
   who actually know a Mormon. But that still leaves a reservoir of
   suspicion. In a recent Pew poll, 25% of Americans said they would be
   less likely to vote for a presidential candidate who was a Mormon.
   Only Muslims and atheists fared worse.

   And that could have political consequences, since one of the leading
   Republican contenders for the presidency in 2008 is a Mormon. Mitt
   Romney is otherwise a strong candidate. He is tall, handsome, clever
   and accomplished. His personal life is impeccable: at 60, he is still
   married to his high-school sweetheart. But he has a big black mark
   against him: his faith.

   He tries to defuse the issue in three ways. First, he quotes John F.
   Kennedy, who said he was running for president not as a Catholic but
   as an American. Second, he draws attention to his wholesome private
   life. And third, he highlights the beliefs Mormons share with other
   Christians, such as that Jesus Christ is the saviour of mankind. This
   month he gave a speech on "Faith in America", recalling the time,
   during the First Continental Congress of 1774, when British troops
   occupied Boston and someone suggested a prayer.

   "There were objections. They were too divided in religious sentiments,
   what with Episcopalians and Quakers, Anabaptists and
   Congregationalists, Presbyterians and Catholics. Then Sam Adams [a
   revolutionary] rose and said he would hear a prayer from anyone of
   piety and good character, as long as they were a patriot. And so
   together they prayed, and together they fought, and together, by the
   grace of God, they founded this great nation." Mr Romney won a
   standing ovation. But one of his rivals for the Republican nomination
   refuses to acknowledge that he is a Christian.

   For Mormons, the Romney candidacy represents both a challenge and an
   opportunity, says Michael Otterson, a church spokesman. The surge of
   media interest gives them a chance to explain their faith to a large
   audience; but campaign strategists now have an incentive to slander
   Mormonism. David Magleby, a political scientist at Brigham Young
   University, suspects that evangelical churches might hold classes on
   "the cult of Mormonism" just before the South Carolina primary.

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

                         Including about his faith

   So what do Mormons believe? In the Bible, to the extent that it is
   "translated correctly"; and also in the Book of Mormon, a text that
   Joseph Smith said he found engraved on thin metal plates after an
   angel named Moroni showed him where to dig. The book reads like a
   pastiche of the King James Bible, and contains some startling
   theology. The story of its origins, however, raises sceptical
   eyebrows.

   It was an ancient text, said Smith, in a language called "Reformed
   Egyptian". He was able to translate it, he said, using a pair of "seer
   stones". He worked in a room divided by a curtain, dictating to a
   scribe who never saw the plates. In all, eight people testified that
   Smith let them see and touch the plates. He later gave them back to
   the Angel Moroni, he said.

   The Book of Mormon describes how Jesus came to the New World after his
   resurrection and preached to native Americans. Parts of the text are
   supposedly a contemporary account of events that took place more than
   1,500 years ago. Yet historians note various anachronisms, such as
   horses, steel and wheat. Neither the archaeological record nor any
   account besides the Book of Mormon suggests their presence in
   pre-Colombian America.

   Most religions make extraordinary claims. What distinguishes Mormonism
   from more established faiths is that its founding revelations occurred
   quite recently. Perhaps because of this, they have been vigorously
   challenged. For example, in 1835, Smith bought some ancient Egyptian
   papyruses. One, he said, had been written by Abraham, the Jewish
   patriarch. He translated it and published it as the Book of Abraham.
   At the time, no one in America could read hieroglyphics, but when
   professional Egyptologists first saw facsimiles of Smith's papyrus,
   they recognised them as fragments from an ancient Egyptian Book of the
   Dead that bore no relation to his translation.

   Critics dismiss Smith as a charming fraud. The Mormon church retorts
   that an ill-educated farm boy such as he could not simply have made up
   so sublime a work as the Book of Mormon. Ultimately, the best way to
   be sure it is true is to pray for guidance, advises the church's
   website.

   Some liberal Mormons, unable to swallow the whole story literally,
   believe that Smith was divinely inspired but think it unimportant to
   dwell on the historical details surrounding his revelations. Some
   sympathetic non-Mormons also admire him. Harold Bloom, a literary
   critic, describes Smith as "an authentic religious genius, unique in
   our national history." Mark Twain, less charitably, called the Book of
   Mormon "chloroform in print".

   The church Smith started is strictly hierarchical. At the top is the
   president, who is considered a prophet. Advising him are two other
   members of the "First Presidency", beneath which are 12 apostles.
   Appointments to the top ranks of the church are for life. Since
   Mormons have few unhealthy vices, their leaders are typically very
   old: Gordon Hinckley, the current president, is 97.

   At lower levels, the church is run by lay volunteers, so it has lower
   running costs than churches with salaried clergy. Since good Mormons
   tithe--that is, they give a tenth of their income to the church--the
   church is colossally wealthy, though its finances are secret. A decade
   ago, the Ostlings estimated its assets at $25-30 billion, but who
   knows? What is certain is that it owns several companies (in
   publishing, food-processing and other wholesome areas), spends a
   fortune helping the victims of floods and famine, and builds new
   temples at an impressive clip.

   The church believes in "continuous revelation", so its doctrines can
   evolve. Take polygamy. Smith had at least 28 wives. He said polygamy
   was God's will. The rest of America was horrified. In 1887 Congress
   passed a law to dissolve the Mormon church. In 1890 the Supreme Court
   upheld it. Shortly afterwards, the church's fourth president banned
   polygamy. Within six years, Utah had won statehood.

   A more recent revelation concerned race. The very early Mormons were
   quite liberal for their time: their neighbours in Missouri complained
   that they did not own slaves. But Mormon scriptures say some harsh
   things about dark-skinned people and until 1978 blacks were barred
   from the priesthood, which, in Mormon parlance, includes more or less
   any devout male over the age of 12. This rule made it tough to win
   converts in, say, Brazil, let alone Africa. But in 1978 a new
   revelation revoked the colour bar.

   Asked why the bar ever existed, Russell Ballard, an apostle, says
   simply: "We don't know." Elder Ballard is pleased that the church is
   now more open: he gushes about its growth in Ghana and Nigeria. And
   though Smith said God told him that other churches were "all wrong",
   Elder Ballard is more tactful. Christians from other churches can keep
   everything they have, he says, but if they become Mormons they will
   get something extra. He stresses the good relations Mormons enjoy with
   other churches, and the values they share. An amiable father of seven
   and grandfather of 43, he is keen to talk about the need to preserve
   the traditional family as American morals crumble.

                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images

   A Mormon marriage, if performed in a temple, is eternal. Husband and
   wife are reunited in heaven, along with their extended family. This
   view of kinship helps explain why Mormons are so interested in
   genealogy. They like to find out who their ancestors were so they can
   perform a baptism for them, and give them the option of becoming
   Mormons posthumously.

   The church's Family History Library in Salt Lake City has the largest
   collection of genealogical data in the world. Mormon researchers have
   amassed 2.4m rolls of microfilm of births, deaths and marriages. They
   collect Chinese clan records and transcribe African oral genealogies.
   (They used to do baptisms for Jewish Holocaust victims, but stopped
   when living Jews complained.) Visitors to the centre can research
   their own ancestry, or simply admire the industry that went into
   discovering that Brigham Young is George Bush's fifth cousin, five
   times removed.

   Wedded as they are to traditional mores, Mormons tend to vote
   Republican. Not always: the leading Democrat in the Senate, Harry
   Reid, is a Mormon. And the church is careful to remain politically
   neutral, except on what it calls moral issues. (It opposes gay
   marriage, for example.) But still, the typical Mormon congressman is
   Chris Cannon, a Utah Republican whose district has the highest number
   of children of any in the country. The American Conservative Union
   gives him a 100% rating. His views on the family are pretty much the
   opposite of those of Nancy Pelosi, the top Democrat in the House of
   Representatives, whose San Francisco district has the lowest number of
   children. But Mr Cannon's conservatism is nuanced: he supports more
   welcoming immigration laws even if it hurts him politically.

   Many Mormons like the idea that one of their own might become
   president. But some have mixed feelings. Ryan Decker, an economics
   student at Brigham Young, frets that Mormon missionaries abroad are
   already often seen as somehow representative of American foreign
   policy. With a Mormon in the White House, that confusion would be
   harder to dispel.

   That would matter, because so many Mormons go on missions for a couple
   of years. Among the devout, especially men, it is expected. They work
   in pairs, partly for safety, partly to keep each other in line.
   Missionaries must live simply, rise early and follow an arduous
   regimen of prayer, study and accosting strangers. Some find it tough;
   others, formative.

   Stephen Covey, a self-help guru whose book "The Seven Habits of Highly
   Effective People" has sold 15m copies, went to Britain as a missionary
   when he was 20. "It helped me learn how to speak in public and
   interact with an audience," he says. He held meetings that sometimes
   drew hundreds, he recalls. Mitt Romney was less successful. As a
   missionary in France, he won "no more than a handful" of converts, he
   told a biographer, Hugh Hewitt.

                                                             Getty Images
                                                             Getty Images

   A century and a half ago, relations between Mormons and their
   neighbours were often bloody. Now, they are pretty good. Sober,
   diligent, nice people are hard to hate. To find tensions between
   Mormons and non-Mormons, you have to go where the two groups compete
   for power.

   Ironically, Mormonism's Mecca is such a place. Mormons are no longer a
   majority in Salt Lake City: with large families, they tend to live in
   the suburbs. So the city now has a non-Mormon mayor, Rocky Anderson.
   He says that relations between the two groups are "quite strained".
   Thanks to a Mormon-dominated city council, drinking laws are finicky.
   If you want to booze without eating, you can either buy extra-watery
   beer or join a private club.

   The mayor cites a long-running dispute with the church over public
   access to a block in the centre of town that it bought from the city a
   few years ago. Tempers have erupted over this, but not fist-fights. Mr
   Anderson also complains that the church opposes gay rights. That is a
   big problem for gay Mormons, but less so for gay gentiles with Mormon
   neighbours. Salt Lake City has been rated one of the 51 "fabulous"
   places to be gay in America.

   Tensions exist within the church, too. Some Mormons find the rules
   hard to live by. Others find the hierarchy stultifying. Paul Toscano,
   a lawyer who was excommunicated for criticising church leaders, says
   that 19th-century Mormonism was to religion what Bach is to music:
   complex and rich. Now, he says, the church is run by corporate types,
   not theologians, and its teachings have become simple and bland, "like
   people dancing the polka".

   Some Mormons just focus on what one might call "cultural
   Mormonism"--clean living and family values--while glossing over what
   the scripture actually says. Mr Toscano recalls that, when he was a
   young man about to go on his mission, he mentioned to his bishop
   (roughly the equivalent of a parish priest) that Joseph Smith was a
   polygamist. The man's face froze in genuine surprise. He said he could
   not let Mr Toscano go on a mission spreading false doctrine. "He was
   an idiot," says Mr Toscano of his former bishop.

   The biggest threat to the church's image comes from the hundreds of
   sects that have splintered from it. The most notorious is led by
   Warren Jeffs, who ruled a remote town on the Utah-Arizona border like
   a priest-king until he was arrested last year for abetting the rape of
   an under-age girl, whom he had ordered to marry her cousin.

   Mr Jeffs told his followers that men could go to heaven only if they
   had multiple wives. So there were never enough women to go around, and
   Mr Jeffs started expelling adolescent boys for minor offences.
   Hundreds of these "Lost Boys" now live in the nearest towns. They can
   usually earn a living, having typically worked on building sites since
   they were ten.

   Kevin (he won't give his surname) says he was thrown out of the sect
   two years ago, when he was 17, for "playing video games, stuff like
   that". He now realises that Mr Jeffs's teachings were "crap". He split
   families. One day he might judge a man unworthy of his wives and
   children and give them all to another man. He banned television, but
   Kevin's dad hid theirs in the closet. Kevin did not watch Mr Jeffs's
   trial, but says: "I hope they convict him of something." They did: he
   got ten years to life.

   Mainstream Mormons are sometimes confused with such groups. But the
   better they are known, the less often it happens. Mr Romney might help
   scotch the association with polygamy: unlike nearly all the other
   serious Republican presidential candidates, he has had only one wife.


   The spooks change their tune, and the politicians recalibrate


   TWO years ago, America's spies assessed with "high confidence" that
   Iran was hell-bent on developing nuclear weapons. This week they did a
   U-turn. With equally high confidence, a new National Intelligence
   Estimate (NIE) concludes that the Iranians halted their covert
   nuclear-weapons programme in 2003, the year America invaded Iraq. The
   good news sparked mayhem in Washington, DC.

   The most hawkish Iran-watchers dismissed it. Given the Islamic
   Republic's history of nuclear cheating, its truckloads of petrodollars
   and the possibility of buying nuclear technology on the black market,
   how can the spooks possibly know that it has stopped trying to make a
   bomb? Norman Podhoretz, an arch-hawk who advises Rudy Giuliani, a
   Republican presidential candidate, speculated that the intelligence
   services were deliberately undermining George Bush to prevent him from
   bombing Iranian nuclear sites.

   Mr Bush, however, welcomed the report as evidence that his spies are
   getting better at figuring out what is going on in one of the world's
   most opaque states. He noted the judgment that Iran stopped its
   weapons programme because of outside pressure, which he considers a
   vindication of his tough approach. And he gave warning that Iran,
   which is still enriching uranium, could restart its bomb-building.

   Many Democrats seized on the report as further evidence that Mr Bush
   is an untrustworthy warmonger. Only weeks ago, noted John Edwards, a
   presidential candidate, Mr Bush was noisily rattling sabres at Iran,
   warning that "If you're interested in avoiding World War Three, it
   seems like you ought to be interested in preventing [Iran] from having
   the knowledge necessary to make a nuclear weapon." Mr Edwards accused
   Mr Bush and his neocon chums of having been "on a march to possible
   war with Iran for a long time". Senator Joe Biden, another would-be
   president, said that Iran "is not a nuclear threat to the United
   States" and vowed that if Mr Bush went to war with Iran without
   congressional approval, he would be impeached.

   Other Democrats were more circumspect. Barack Obama stressed that Iran
   is still a threat to its neighbours. Both he and Hillary Clinton urged
   more direct and energetic diplomacy to make sure that Iran never
   acquires nuclear weapons, and to persuade it to stop destabilising its
   neighbours, such as Iraq.

   It is not obvious whom the report will help at the 2008 election.
   Democrats will benefit from the revelation of another big intelligence
   snafu under Mr Bush. But Republicans may gain if voters feel relieved
   that it has been corrected. Democrats could do well if voters decide
   the world is a safer place than they thought. But Republicans could
   gain if Democrats begin to sound complacent. The NIE report is good
   news, says Al From of the Democratic Leadership Council, a centrist
   group, "but we Democrats have to be careful not to make it better news
   than it is. Iran will still be a threat for the next president."

   Although Mr Bush says the report does not require a change in American
   policy towards Iran, the situation has clearly altered. Hawks in the
   White House, such as the vice-president, are weaker. More cautious
   types, like Condoleezza Rice, the secretary of state, are stronger. It
   is inconceivable that Mr Bush could attack Iran's nuclear facilities
   after his own spies have said it is not making nuclear weapons, says
   Ray Takeyh of the Council on Foreign Relations, a think-tank. Then
   again, if Iran's leaders calculate that they will not be attacked,
   they may be emboldened to make more mischief. And so the arguments
   rage on.


   Let my people go
   "I cannot part the Red Sea, but I believe I can part the red tape."

   Mike Huckabee, a Baptist minister, replying to a question on
   government spending during a Republican presidential debate in Iowa,
   December 12th

   But how do you really feel?
   "Oh my God, no. Really?"

   A Joe Lieberman staffer upon learning that Mr Lieberman, a
   Democrat-turned-independent, is endorsing John McCain (a Republican)
   for president. [3]CNN.com, December 17th 

   Home wrecker or philanderer?
   A poll of women voters revealed that 40% think Judith Giuliani's
   affair with Rudy Giuliani, while he was still married to his previous
   wife, makes her less suitable to be first lady. Only a third think
   Bill Clinton's adultery makes him less suitable to be first laddie. 

   New York Daily News, December 17th 

   But on the other hand
   "I like the fact that his name is Barack Hussein Obama, and that his
   father was a Muslim and that his paternal grandmother is a Muslim."

   Bob Kerrey after endorsing Hillary Clinton. [4]Washingtonpost.com,
   December 16th 

   Never too early to recruit
   "Hillary, I'm looking forward to you advising me, as well."

   Mr Obama parries when asked about his reliance on former Clinton
   advisers while promising change during a Democratic candidates' debate
   in Iowa, December 13th 

   Republicanphobia
   "He seems like a nice charming guy. [Mike Huckabee] doesn't believe in
   evolution and has some nutty views about what it is we should do about
   ending violence in our inner city--we should make sure all of our
   young people are armed. Republicans scare me."

   Elizabeth Edwards, John Edwards's wife, revealing her not-so-secret
   fears in Iowa. [5]ABCNews.com, December 15th 

   Six-million-dollar man
   "Towards the end it was difficult to keep up with all the accounting."

   Ron Paul on raising so much money ($6m in one day) he isn't sure how
   to spend it. [6]CNN.com, December 17th 

   Just to be on the safe side
   "I know you're going to inspect me. You can look inside my mouth if
   you want."

   Mrs Clinton compares a livestock auction to presidential campaigning.
   Associated Press, December 16th


   The Democratic presidential candidates tout their ideas for reform

                                                                       AP

                                     AP

                       Obama listens to the diagnosis

   HOW do you devise a health-care plan that is sensible and centrist,
   yet also stands out from the rest? That is the question faced by all
   the Democratic candidates for the presidency. Health care is second
   only to the war in Iraq among voters' concerns, so everyone with an
   eye on the White House wants a winning answer.

   The three front-runners--Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and John
   Edwards--have all promised to control costs and provide coverage for
   the 47m Americans without health insurance. All three have eschewed
   radical change. Instead, they are jostling over the centre ground: how
   to tweak America's predominantly private health-care system.

   Mr Edwards has long set the pace with an ambitious plan that nods at
   cost control but concentrates on insuring every American by 2012. Not
   unlike reforms already under way in Massachusetts and California, Mr
   Edwards's scheme promises an overhaul of insurance markets, subsidies
   to help poorer people pay their premiums and a legal requirement that
   everyone should buy health insurance.

   In a sop to the party's left, a government health scheme, such as
   Medicare, would compete with private insurers. Employers would have to
   provide their workers with health insurance or pay a tax. But the
   Edwards plan would still cost the federal government some $120 billion
   a year, money that would be raised by rolling back Mr Bush's tax cuts
   for the rich.

   In recent days Mrs Clinton and Mr Obama have begun to flesh out their
   alternatives. Scarred by the disasters of Hillary-care, her failed
   attempt to overhaul America's health system in 1993, Mrs Clinton is
   leery of laying out a Big Plan. Her preferred step-by-step approach
   has started with cost control; ideas for boosting coverage are
   promised in the coming weeks.

   Mrs Clinton offers a litany of well-known, but sensible, savings, such
   as shifting to electronic records, concentrating more on preventive
   medicine, improving the management of chronic diseases, and creating a
   "best practices institute" to set guidelines for optimal care. In all,
   she claims, $120 billion a year could be wrung out of the health
   system, money that could be used to pay for broader coverage.

   Mr Obama's plan, unveiled on May 29th, borrows from both his rivals'.
   Like Mrs Clinton, he concentrates on cost control. Mr Obama trots out
   the same litany of better disease management, electronic records and
   the like. He promises that the typical American family would save up
   to $2,500 in medical costs a year. Part of that, however, is gained by
   shifting expenses to the government. Borrowing an idea touted by John
   Kerry in 2004, Mr Obama says the federal government should reimburse
   private insurers for a share of any catastrophic health costs.

   The Obama path to universal coverage is a paler version of Mr
   Edwards's. It promises insurance-market reform, including the creation
   of a National Health Insurance Exchange, to act as a clearing-house
   for people to buy coverage, as well as an industry watchdog. Anyone
   without health cover at work could also buy into a new public-health
   plan, much like that for federal employees. Subsidies would help
   poorer Americans pay their premiums.

   Like Mr Edwards's, the Obama plan would levy a tax on firms that do
   not provide health cover. It would also demand an infusion of federal
   cash, to be paid for, yes, by rolling back some of the Bush tax cuts
   for the rich. Mr Obama's aides claim the price tag would be around $65
   billion a year, though other health experts think it would be higher.

   The big difference is that Mr Obama, unlike Mr Edwards, would not
   force people to buy health insurance. Only children would have to be
   covered. That soft-pedalling may please the unions, some of which
   dislike the idea of compelling workers to buy insurance. But it makes
   his plan both less efficient and less effective.


   Americans have always been conflicted about black gold 



   FLAGELLATING the oil business is one of America's proudest traditions.
   Ida Tarbell, the greatest of the muckraking journalists, accused
   Standard Oil of building its empire on "fraud, deceit, special
   privilege, gross illegality, bribery, coercion, corruption,
   intimidation, espionage or outright terror". Upton Sinclair demonised
   the oil barons in his 1927 novel "Oil!". Today bookshop shelves are
   crammed with tomes denouncing the Bush oil dynasty, or predicting that
   America's dependence on oil will bring environmental Armageddon.

   Paul Thomas Anderson's "There Will Be Blood" is a striking
   contribution to this tradition. The film, which is loosely based on
   Sinclair's book, is a study of frontier capitalism at its rawest. It
   is set in the badlands of the West--all scrub and rocks--where the
   people are too poor to buy bread and the only solace lies in the
   wonder-working power of Pentecostalism. The discovery of oil suddenly
   pours wealth into the community, but also brings all the usual sins of
   greed and envy. The local preacher is consumed by the dream of
   building a huge church.

   The film is also a study of obsession. Daniel Day-Lewis's performance
   as Daniel Plainview, a wildcatter-turned-tycoon, is not only
   mesmerising (Slate's Dana Stevens describes it as "beyond praise"). It
   is also utterly merciless. Most of Hollywood's business anti-heroes
   are redeemed by their attachment to their families: the heroin baron
   at the heart of "American Gangster" at least buys a mansion for his
   mother. But the only two relationships Plainview manages--with his
   adopted son and a man who claims to be his half-brother--both
   collapse. Plainview is eventually left with nothing but his oil
   fortune and the resentments he has accumulated while making it.

   Why have some Americans always harboured such hostility to the oil
   industry? Their loathing long predates worries about man's carbon
   footprint. It flies in the face of America's love affair with cars and
   the extravagant use of fuel. Many oilmen, too, have been
   quintessential entrepreneurs, self-reliant types who have wrestled
   wealth out of an unforgiving frontier. The great oil tycoons have
   recycled their wealth through philanthropy on a huge scale. Yet they
   are often hated.

   One reason is the sheer wealth and power of the oil families. America
   is one of the few rich countries with a large oil industry (the other
   two--Canada and Norway--are not given to America's ostentatious
   displays of wealth and power). The first oil boom after 1870 produced
   such titans as John D. Rockefeller (America's first billionaire) and
   Stephen Harkness. A second oil boom after the second world war
   produced a new generation of Texan tycoons such as the Hunts and the
   Basses.

   Kevin Phillips has compiled fascinating lists of America's 30 richest
   families throughout the 20th century. The list for 1901-14 contains
   six families who made their money wholly or partly out of oil. The
   lists for 1968 and 1982 contain eight and 11 families respectively.
   These oilmen have repeatedly redefined American power. Rockefeller's
   Standard Oil had the legislatures eating out of its hand. The sunbelt
   oilmen helped to promote the careers of Ronald Reagan and the Bushes.

   Another reason for hating the oil industry is that it has offered
   "progressives" not one convenient target but two. The first is
   "monopoly". In 1900 Standard Oil controlled more than 90% of the
   country's oil supply. Though that monopoly was eventually broken, a
   wave of mega-mergers in the 1990s has turned the remaining oil
   companies into some of the biggest businesses in the world. Two years
   ago Congress held a series of feisty hearings on the industry's
   alleged price-gouging, hearings that were hardly made more civil by
   the news that Lee Raymond, the head of Exxon Mobil, had been given a
   retirement package of $400m.

   The second target is frontier capitalism. The very thing that excites
   conservatives about the frontier--the fact that it allows spirited
   entrepreneurs to test themselves against nature in the pursuit of huge
   fortunes--disturbs liberals. Mr Anderson echoes long-standing liberal
   complaints. Primitive oil wells burst into flames all over his film.
   Men fall into tarry pits. The obsessed and misanthropic Plainview
   makes more money than he can spend while others are ruined.

   A growing slick of worries

   These days the oil critics have an embarrassment of riches to work
   with. Environmentalism is a perfect vehicle. The lust for oil is doing
   something more dangerous than creating the makeshift towns of
   Plainview's day: it is threatening to turn the world into an
   overheated mausoleum. And the Bush dynasty is the perfect foil. Dick
   Cheney subcontracted America's energy policy to his pals in the energy
   business and then fought like a demon to keep the proceedings secret.
   Two Bush presidents in a row have gone to war with the same oil-rich
   Arab country. George Bush junior has smirked at the problem of global
   warming--and the man he duelled with in 2000 has turned himself into
   the world's leading champion of environmentalism.

   Worries about oil are also spreading from its molten liberal core
   across the rest of the political spectrum. For many conservatives,
   "oil" now sums up images of sinister Arabs rather than rugged Texans
   (the United States now imports more than half its oil compared with
   less than a third in 1970). They fret that America's appetite for oil
   is enriching potentially hostile regimes in the Middle East. Most of
   the Republican candidates talk about energy independence.

   None of these problems is going to go away. Since oil is a global
   product, the notion of energy independence will remain a chimera.
   Americans, too, will remain reluctant to pay more for petrol or alter
   their energy-dependent way of life. Plenty more books and films
   excoriating oil can be expected in the years to come. Few, though,
   will be as good as "There Will Be Blood".


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

                            Fraternal greetings

   The Democrats are convulsed by emotive arguments 

   IN A high-minded moment in the Democratic debate in Las Vegas on
   January 15th Hillary Clinton declared that "what's most important is
   that Senator Obama and I agree completely that, you know, neither race
   nor gender should be a part of this campaign." Meanwhile, back in the
   real world, their respective camps were arguing about nothing else.

   Many blacks have taken objection to a couple of remarks that the
   Clintons made during the New Hampshire primary. Mrs Clinton averred
   that "Dr King's dream began to be realised when President Lyndon
   Johnson passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964". Bill Clinton--the two
   are joined hip and thigh during this campaign--accused Mr Obama of
   purveying a "fairy tale".

   The Clintons have reacted furiously to the charge of racial
   insensitivity--and their team has busily accused the Obama camp of
   twisting their words for partisan advantage. They have a point. Mr
   Clinton was referring to Mr Obama's opposition to the Iraq war. Mrs
   Clinton was emphasising the importance of experience in bringing about
   solid legislative change (though one wonders what sort of experienced
   Democratic politician speaks anything but reverently of Dr King). The
   Obama camp's hypersensitivity to presumed racial slights undercuts
   their champion's claim to be running as a post-racial politician.

   Still, Mr Obama's lieutenants were not the only people to take
   offence. Donna Brazile, Al Gore's former campaign manager and a
   neutral in this race, thought that they crossed the line, as did James
   Clyburn, an extremely influential South Carolina congressman. And
   black radio stations have been talking about nothing else.

   Mr Clinton's excuses were drowned in the noise created by Robert
   Johnson, a black mogul who founded Black Entertainment Television.
   Introducing Mrs Clinton in South Carolina, Mr Johnson claimed that the
   Clintons "have been deeply and emotionally involved with black issues
   since Barack Obama was doing something in the neighbourhood--and I
   won't say what he was doing but he said it in his book." Mr Johnson's
   preposterous claim that he was talking about Mr Obama's community
   activism rather than his cocaine use has persuaded nobody.

   The debate is not likely to die down--despite the candidates'
   protestations about taking gender and race off the table. The South
   Carolina primary looms on January 26th--the first primary in the South
   and the first that has not been played out before an overwhelmingly
   white electorate. Blacks make up half of the Democratic electorate in
   the state, and are leaning heavily towards Mr Obama. A Rasmussen poll
   found the two candidates neck and neck a month ago. This week
   Rasmussen found Mr Obama leading by 38 points to 33. Mr Obama leads by
   53 to 30 among blacks but loses by 21 to 40 among whites.

   The row also reflects deep cleavages along race and gender lines among
   Democratic voters nationally. Rasmussen shows Mr Obama beating Mrs
   Clinton by 66% to 16% among blacks but trailing her 27% to 41% among
   whites. Gallup shows Mrs Clinton leading Mr Obama by 49 points to 19
   points among females who are older than 50 and by 42 points to 28
   points among women aged 18 to 49.

   Mrs Clinton is banking on her edge among women. Her tearful moment in
   a New Hampshire diner, which is widely credited with reviving her
   floundering campaign, went down particularly well with older women.
   She repeatedly emphasises her hard work on behalf of her gender. In a
   remarkable exercise in doublethink she claimed on one of the Sunday
   talk shows that "you have a woman running to break the highest and
   hardest glass ceiling. I don't think either of us wants to inject race
   or gender in this campaign. We're running as individuals".

   The other reason why the debate will continue is that the Clintons'
   main aim at the moment is to drive up Mr Obama's "negatives". They
   desperately need to reverse polls that show that, despite his failure
   in New Hampshire, Mr Obama is picking up support in a large swathe of
   demographic groups.

   This will involve attacking his political record and picking apart his
   personal biography (it is striking that two Clinton supporters have
   already brought up Mr Obama's admitted cocaine use). None of this is
   likely to go down well with Americans who regard Mr Obama as one of
   the most talented politicians of his generation, and who hope that he
   will become America's first black president.


   What ruins reveal about America 

   LINDSAY BAKER walks through the streets of Thurber carrying a hoe. It
   is handy for killing rattlesnakes, which lurk in the long grass that
   has all but swallowed the town. He also uses it to scrape in the dirt
   for what the people who once lived there left behind. He finds some
   shards of an old medicine bottle, the cap of a salt-shaker and a
   half-brick with markings that date it sometime between 1904 and 1936.
   If a brush fire clears the grass, you'll see artefacts like this
   everywhere, explains Mr Baker, a historian whose boyish enthusiasm for
   ghost towns belies his years.

   America has a lot of ghost towns. There are 1,000 in Texas alone.
   Thurber was once home to 10,000 people. Now there are only five. In
   its busy days, Thurber was a coal town. Immigrants flocked there from
   Italy, Poland and Mexico to dig up fuel for steam trains. The coal was
   also used to fire bricks made from local clay. The town boasted
   churches, baseball teams and even an opera house.

   But then someone found oil in Texas. Before long, the trains started
   burning oil instead of coal. Thurber's mine closed in 1926. And since
   cheap oil prompted Texans to start using asphalt instead of bricks to
   pave their roads, Thurber's brick kiln closed, too.

   The workers left. Their homes were sold for $50 to anyone who could
   carry them off. You can still see them in the surrounding countryside,
   serving as barns or storehouses. Little is left in Thurber itself but
   a smokestack, the graveyard (divided into Catholic, Protestant and
   black areas) and a few company buildings.

   The story is not all wretched, however. Many workers found jobs in the
   oil business. The company that built Thurber struck oil and prospered.
   The old boss's daughter-in-law donated money for a museum to preserve
   Thurber's memory, which Mr Baker runs. His qualifications are ideal:
   besides teaching industrial history at nearby Tarleton State
   University, he is the author of "Ghost Towns of Texas" and "More Ghost
   Towns of Texas".

   Something about ghost towns grips the American imagination. They
   provide an eerie backdrop for movies, children's books and theme-park
   rides. Ghost-town enthusiasts devote countless weekends to searching
   out remote examples, photographing them and posting their findings on
   websites such as [3]www.ghosttowns.com. Typically, they give imprecise
   directions so that only the most committed ghost-towners can follow
   their footsteps.

   Ghost towns are sad places, but also monuments to American dynamism.
   When work moves, so do Americans. With so much space, especially in
   the West, it can make sense to let a town die. But its memory may live
   on. Ghost towns give people a tangible connection to a mysterious
   past, says Mr Baker. Others treat history more playfully. On a hill
   near Thurber, someone has built a hunting lodge in the shape of a
   Scottish castle.


   Welcome attention to the real problem

   SENATOR JOHN McCAIN is famous for his straight talking, spelling out
   uncomfortable truths even when they do him political damage--whether
   on Iraq, torture, immigration or free trade. Now he has decided to
   deal with health care bluntly too: American health-care costs are much
   too high, he says, and the priority for any reform must be to bring
   them down.

   Speaking on the campaign trail in Iowa on October 11th, Mr McCain put
   cost front and centre as he unveiled his own health plan. He noted
   that General Motors spends more on health than it does on steel: the
   price of each of its cars includes more than $1,500 for health care.
   Toyota's health-care costs come to about $200 a car.

   The other candidates all mention cost, of course. But for those on the
   Democratic side, the priority in this election is not cost but
   coverage. Some 47m Americans lack any form of health cover, being
   neither poor nor old enough to qualify for government-funded health
   schemes, and having neither a generous enough employer nor sufficient
   financial resources of their own to pay for private health insurance.
   This, on average, now costs some $12,000 a year for a family of four,
   according to the Kaiser Foundation, a Washington think-tank.

   All the leading Democratic candidates have produced detailed plans for
   making coverage universal, involving subsidies for those who can't
   afford insurance and--at least in the case of Hillary Clinton's and
   John Edwards's plans--a legal requirement that everyone be covered.
   Even on the Republican side, plans produced by Rudy Giuliani and a few
   others focus more on using market mechanisms (not subsidies, as the
   Democrats prefer) to expand coverage than on overall costs.

   But cost plainly is the biggest issue. For the past four decades,
   American health-care costs have usually increased faster than the
   economy has grown, by an average of an extra 2.5% a year. Health care
   now consumes around 16% of America's entire GDP, a much higher
   proportion than in other industrial economies.

   Ever-rising costs of this kind are not sustainable. They damage the
   competitiveness of companies, one reason why the proportion of firms
   offering health care to their employees has been steadily falling,
   from 69% in 2000 to 60% now. And these figures do not capture the
   extent to which squeezed companies have been scaling back their health
   plans, obliging employees, for instance, to pay a higher share of
   treatment costs, or refusing to cover other members of employees'
   families.

   For people who must pay for their own insurance, rising costs have far
   outstripped increases in earnings (see chart). This has helped
   increase the number of uninsured. And for the government, which pays
   for the health-care costs of many children, the very poor, the
   retired, veterans and its own servants, the geometrically rising price
   of cover is inexorably busting the budget. By 2050, says Peter Orszag,
   director of the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), Medicare (the
   government programme for the elderly) and Medicaid (for the poor) will
   together consume some 20% of GDP--almost the same share as the entire
   federal budget now. Three-quarters of this rise, he says, is due to
   cost inflation, and only about a quarter to the ageing of America's
   population.

   Mr McCain does not pretend to be able to solve this problem, but he
   offers a number of mechanisms that will help. The most important is to
   shake up the insurance market, by, for instance, allowing
   health-insurance companies to tout for business across state lines.
   Insurance and pharmaceuticals companies collectively make some $80
   billion a year in profit, which may suggest that there is room for
   more efficiency.

   Mr McCain also wants to see much greater pooling of national data on
   best practices, a suggestion that chimes with the CBO's finding of
   vast discrepancies between costs for similar procedures across the
   country. He wants to see doctors rewarded according to results, rather
   than procedures, because he argues that the current system is stacked
   against preventive medicine. His plans are skimpy compared with those
   of, say, Mrs Clinton. But at least he is asking the right question.


   The risky business of defying the Democratic National Committee

   FOR years Michigan's Democrats have said that the primary system gives
   Iowa and New Hampshire unfair attention. So last autumn the state's
   Democrats and equally miffed Republicans moved their contests right up
   into January. Michigan became a political hot spot, with candidates
   swooning at Detroit's latest cars and promising to revive the state's
   economy. At least, that's what the Republicans did. No Democrat turned
   up, except for Dennis Kucinich.

   The Democratic National Committee (DNC) angrily stripped Michigan and
   Florida, the other big state to defy the party and move its contest
   forward, of their delegates to the party convention in August, when
   the candidate will be nominated. (The Republican Party's gentler
   punishment was to cut the number of delegates in half.) Mark Brewer,
   Michigan's Democratic chairman, says the DNC will let his delegates
   attend the convention, but that remains to be seen.

   The result of all this, complained a writer for the Detroit Free
   Press, was a primary comparable to "NASCAR on bicycles, Halloween with
   no costumes and Miss America without swimsuits" (the last event might
   not be as dull as he meant). Hillary Clinton won 55% of the vote;
   hardly a victory, since her only rivals on the ballot were Chris Dodd
   (who withdrew from the race weeks ago), Mike Gravel (who?) and Mr
   Kucinich (the candidate who just won't go away).

   A remarkable 40% voted "uncommitted" in support of Barack Obama and
   John Edwards, who took their names off Michigan's ballot in deference
   to the official schedule. Their supporters hope the "uncommitted" vote
   will earn them delegates who could support their candidate at the
   convention--assuming any delegates from Michigan are allowed.

   Many local Democrats are angry with both the state and the national
   party. "People are so disappointed and discouraged," explained
   Christina Montague, leader of Michiganders for Obama. One of Mr
   Edwards's supporters has sued the state party, unsuccessfully, for
   disenfranchisement.

   Michigan's Democratic leaders are supporting their decision to go
   early. Carl Levin, Michigan's senior senator, hopes to inspire other
   states to demand that the DNC change its "cockamamie" system. (He has
   a bill that would do just that.) Mr Brewer insists that the early
   primary is "short-term pain for long-term reform". Pain, yes. The
   reform is less certain.

   Still, the DNC has not yet won this skirmish. If the attempt to
   strong-arm the states alienates the Democratic base in Michigan or
   Florida, the party may be the real loser in November.


   By neglecting its transport system, Chicago is gambling with its
   future

   AS A thriving midwestern city, Chicago is still the beating heart of
   much of America's industry. But its arteries--both road and rail--are
   increasingly clogged. A report released earlier this month by
   Illinois's auditor, William Holland, highlighted some chronic glitches
   in the network of buses and commuter trains. The region also needs a
   better approach to highways and rail freight.

   It is hard, of course, to co-ordinate commuter transport between an
   urban system and one that serves surrounding counties with a different
   tax base. Chicago's Regional Transportation Authority (RTA), which
   covers the six counties of the metropolitan area, is supposed to
   promote better planning and links among the city's system and a pair
   of others that run suburban train and bus networks. But it has clearly
   come up short so far. The RTA, Mr Holland's audit concluded, needs to
   wield a firmer hand, over budgets and in general.

   No matter how the RTA allocates the pie, however, the current pot of
   money seems woefully inadequate. Operating costs have grown three
   times as fast as revenues over the past five years. Last month the RTA
   released a five-year "strategic plan" (otherwise known as a request
   for money) that called for, among other things, an extra $400m in
   annual operating funds and $10 billion in capital spending over the
   next five years. That will be a tough sell in the state legislature.

   Freight traffic is arguably an even bigger problem. In this, Chicago
   is unique. Six of the country's seven biggest-earning railways
   converge there, and the city is still the hub for a staggering amount
   of trans-continental commerce. Managing logistics and supply chains
   for distant companies, as well as physically moving goods around at
   warehouses and inter-modal hubs, generates lots of jobs for the area.
   Chicago's ability to handle all this traffic is being badly stretched,
   however. Ann Drake, the head of DSC Logistics, says that west-east
   freight traffic continues to grow rapidly, as ever more goods from
   Asia try to make their way to the east coast.

   Ms Drake's worry--and that of many others--is that Chicago's
   congestion will eventually cause many shipments to be rerouted around
   it, a process that could eat away its advantages. "We do not want to
   become another St Louis," she says, gloomily invoking the city that
   lost its midwestern primacy to Chicago after failing to invest in
   infrastructure.

   Helpfully, many business and civic leaders are moving transport
   problems up their list of priorities. The Metropolitan Planning
   Council (MPC), which presses for a co-ordinated policy for the
   region's big issues, has done a good job of channelling their
   frustrations into useful ideas. But there is something odd about the
   way that many of Chicago's leaders talk about these problems. They
   invariably try to link their suggestions to grand or abstract ideas,
   such as being a "global city" or winning a bid to host the Olympics.
   The simpler need is to get goods and people moving.

   The awful state of Chicago's transport comes home most plainly to
   drivers sitting stationary in their cars. The public debate over
   making drivers pay to use the roads has been as shallow in Chicago as
   in the rest of America. The argument tends to revolve around whether
   it makes more sense to use tolls and private enterprise to pay for
   better roads, or instead to keep charging taxpayers for a system that
   just limps along. By contrast, not much is said about the role that
   prices might play in altering the behaviour of both companies and
   commuters. MarySue Barrett, president of the MPC, says that her outfit
   hopes to make road pricing a bigger part of that debate.

   Hostility towards road pricing might be understandable in other parts
   of America. But one of Chicago's proudest feats was the creation of
   financial futures markets, which prompted far-flung firms and farmers
   to adjust their behaviour to the slightest twitch in the price of pork
   futures or Canadian dollars. Surely the system would work for Chicago
   commuters as well.


   The front-runners fall back in the crucial first state to vote

   IN OCTOBER a group of Iowa Democrats gathered for a Barack Obama
   "house party". People were polite in Iowa, one guest explained, and
   they expected the same good behaviour from presidential candidates.
   But now, less than a month before the parties hold their nominating
   caucuses there on January 3rd, a slew of new polls have bad news for
   the front-runners, and the candidates have moved into attack mode.
   How, though, to sling their mud without upsetting Iowans?

   On the Republican side, Mike Huckabee, a former governor of Arkansas,
   has zoomed up to take a narrow lead over Mitt Romney, a former
   governor of Massachusetts, who had led in Iowa for months.
   Evangelicals, who will make up an estimated 40% of Republicans taking
   part in the caucuses, have rallied behind Mr Huckabee. He is
   resolutely conservative on social issues; he is not a Mormon like Mr
   Romney; and he is not lazy like Fred Thompson. But Mr Huckabee needs
   to build up his tiny Iowa organisation fast. If he goes in as the
   favourite and loses, he will have less chance of winning in other
   early-voting states, like New Hampshire, where his pitch is less
   attractive.

   Mr Huckabee's rivals are doing their best to draw attention to the
   smiling Arkansan's weaknesses. They are attacking him for wanting to
   subsidise university fees for the children of illegal immigrants in
   Arkansas, as well as for raising certain taxes during his time as
   governor. Mr Romney, in particular, will have to offer a substantive
   critique of Mr Huckabee's economic populism and lack of foreign-policy
   expertise if he is to repulse the Huckabee wave. Both in his
   conservative credentials and in his personal chemistry, the robotic Mr
   Romney cannot compete with the affable former Baptist minister.

   Meanwhile, the Democratic contest is now a tight three-way race
   between Hillary Clinton, John Edwards and Mr Obama. In some recent
   polls, Mr Obama has actually taken the lead. For the first time, the
   moving average compiled by [3]Real Clear Politics, a website, now
   shows both Mr Romney and Mrs Clinton dislodged from the Iowa top spots
   (see chart).

   In response, Mrs Clinton seems to be drifting to the left. In an
   interview with the Financial Times this week she turned more
   protectionist than ever, calling the Doha round of international trade
   talks into question. Her campaign has also begun questioning Mr
   Obama's integrity, using an essay he wrote in kindergarten entitled "I
   Want to be President" as evidence of overweening ambition.

   Mrs Clinton, who is still miles ahead in all national polls of
   Democrats, seemed to trip up in Iowa on December 2nd when she said
   that making personal attacks on Mr Obama was going to be "fun". That
   is just the sort of fun those polite Iowans don't like very much.


   Health care for children arouses the president's mean streak

   NEITHER fiscal restraint, nor the veto pen, has characterised
   President George Bush's time in the White House. America continues to
   run a deficit, and Mr Bush has vetoed only three bills in his whole
   tenure. But now that he has a Democratic Congress to battle with, the
   president is promising to be tougher.

   Mr Bush has said he will turn away a bill that would expand the State
   Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), a scheme that insures
   children from low-income families, which passed the House of
   Representatives on September 25th. He has also threatened to veto nine
   of the 12 appropriations bills that make up the federal budget,
   because the Democrats' budget plan exceeds his own by $22 billion.

   But SCHIP is extremely popular, and so is the bill that seeks to widen
   it to 4m more uninsured children. Since 1997, SCHIP has covered
   children in families that do not qualify for benefits under Medicaid,
   a programme for the very poor, but who still cannot afford health
   insurance. Under the scheme, the federal government gives a block
   grant to the states, which design their own benefits and eligibility
   criteria. The programme expires on September 30th.

   House and Senate negotiators crafted a renewal plan that would add $35
   billion to the programme's cost over five years and enable states to
   cover families with incomes at or above three times the poverty line
   in certain cases. Mr Bush claims that the reformed programme will
   attract families who already have private insurance into the state-run
   programme. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that a
   third of families that would enroll would have access to private
   coverage. But Robert Greenstein, of the Centre on Budget and Policy
   Priorities, argues that crowding out is bound to occur as the
   government tries to cover more children.

   Mr Greenstein speculates that the president is really trying to force
   Congress to attach the health-care tax-incentive proposal he unveiled
   in January. An aversion to government-run health-care programmes and
   new taxes--a tobacco-tax increase would fund the SCHIP expansion--may
   also be driving Mr Bush's opposition. Or he may simply be trying to
   re-establish his credentials as a fiscal conservative.

   Whatever the truth, the White House has made an inauspicious start of
   its fight with Congress over federal spending. Battle royal will be
   joined in November.




   Can America ever escape from the shadow of 1968? 

   AMERICA is greeting the New Year with a spasm of nostalgia for an old
   one. Tom Brokaw's new book, "Boom!", is a virtual reunion of the class
   of '68 (the high point is a photograph of the young Dick Cheney
   astride a motorbike and wearing shades). Newsweek has dubbed 1968 "the
   year that changed everything". On December 30th the Washington Post
   quoted David Maraniss, one of the best chroniclers of the 1960s,
   waxing lyrical about '68: "there was a mood that anything was
   possible, good or bad, that life was changing by the week...it was
   kind of dizzying and exhilarating and tragic."

   For once the baby-boomers can be forgiven their nostalgia. 1968 was
   indeed one of the most significant years in American history. Martin
   Luther King and Robert Kennedy were assassinated within two months of
   each other. The Tet offensive turned public opinion against the
   Vietnam war. Cities burned and students revolted. The Democratic
   convention in Chicago collapsed in riots and confusion.

   1968 was the anvil that shaped the political legacy of the sixties.
   The Democratic Party marginalised itself by shifting decisively to the
   left on everything from the war to sexual politics. The Republican
   Party hit on its great winning formula--presenting itself as the
   champion of the "silent majority" against long-haired lefties and
   revolting students. The year ended with almost 60% of Americans voting
   for either Richard Nixon or George Wallace, a Southern segregationist.

   The Republicans and Democrats have replayed these themes ever since.
   The Republicans have caricatured the Democrats as Harvard Yard
   hippies. Hence all those congressional votes on flag-burning and other
   dire threats. The Democrats have accused the Republicans of repeating
   the mistakes of Vietnam in Iraq. One reason why conservatives hate
   Bill Clinton so much is that they think he embodies the narcissism and
   self-indulgence of the 1960s. (The man even named his daughter after a
   Joni Mitchell song.) One reason why liberals hate George Bush so much
   is that they think he and his frat-boy kind should have been swept
   aside by the youth-quake of 1968.

   They are replaying those themes still in the current election. John
   McCain, who spent the late 1960s as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, has
   chided Hillary Clinton for earmarking $1m for a Woodstock concert
   museum ("I wasn't there...I was tied up at the time"). John Edwards
   often seems to be channelling the spirit of Robert Kennedy--at least
   of the RFK who transformed himself after his brother's death from
   hard-assed cold warrior to liberal hero. Like RFK, he has made ending
   the war his signature tune; he is focused on ending poverty; and he
   has spent much of his time campaigning in inner cities and rural
   backwaters.

   But there is also something else going on in this campaign; a longing
   to escape from the shadow of 1968. Barack Obama makes much of the fact
   that he is too young to have played a part in the Kulturkampf of the
   1960s. He has pointedly complained that "Senator Clinton and others,
   they've been fighting some of the same fights since the sixties, and
   it makes it very difficult for them to bring the country together to
   get things done."

   Move on

   Can America at last break free of the 1960s? Much obviously depends on
   which candidates the parties pick. Mrs Clinton is most likely to give
   the old culture warriors a chance to fight the battles of 1968 again.
   Mr Obama is the most likely to re-scramble American politics in
   unpredictable ways. But, even if the Democrats go with Mrs Clinton,
   there are some reasons for hoping that politics will be more than just
   a replay of that year.

   The first is that the Democratic Party has decisively kicked the habit
   of self-marginalisation that it acquired in 1968. It has replaced
   cultural liberalism with a studied cultural conservatism (too much so
   on the issues of ending the death penalty and of gun control, both of
   which it now studiously ignores). Mrs Clinton has supported banning
   flag-burning. Both Mr Edwards and Mr Obama support big increases in
   the military budget.

   The second is that Nixon's strategy of defending the moral majority
   against the cultural elites is running out of steam. The Republican
   candidates have had their fair share of divorces. Rudy Giuliani has
   embraced New York values when it comes to abortion and homosexual
   unions. The populism that is catching fire this year is old-fashioned
   economic populism rather than Nixon-style cultural populism--and it is
   catching fire across both parties. Both Mr Edwards, a Democrat, and
   Mike Huckabee, a Republican, have powered their campaigns by
   championing ordinary people against greedy corporations.

   The final reason is that, for all the endless comparisons between
   Vietnam and Iraq, America has changed greatly since 1968. Students are
   worried about getting good jobs rather than changing the system. The
   anti-war demonstrations have been insignificant compared with the
   draft-fuelled marches of the 1960s. The counter-culture has long ago
   made its peace with capitalism. Some 150m Americans, half the
   population, have been born since January 1st 1969.

   The biggest difference is with race relations. In the wake of King's
   murder, riots erupted in 125 cities: 46 people were killed, 2,500
   injured and 21,000 arrested. Soldiers set up machinegun-turrets on the
   steps of the Capitol. Black radicals like Stokely Carmichael pledged
   to "end this non-violence bullshit". Today America's race relations
   are utterly transformed. There are still far too many blacks in
   poverty or in jail. But there is also a thriving black middle class. A
   conservative Republican president has made a black woman who grew up
   in the segregated South his secretary of state. Mr Obama is
   campaigning for president as a post-racial candidate. 1968 was indeed
   a remarkable year, but it is time for a new template for American
   politics.


   Most commuters are miserable, but Chicago's may be the most
   beleaguered

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                                      It's hell on the El

   THE city's average commute is not quite America's longest (that honour
   goes to New York), but in one respect Chicago is unrivalled: the
   bitterness and passion of the argument surrounding its
   public-transport system.

   If the Illinois state legislature does not act by January 20th, more
   than half of bus routes in the city will be eliminated, some 2,400
   transport workers will be sacked and fares will be raised. Suburban
   rail and bus lines face cuts as well. Commuters will be forced to
   drive on already crowded roads or walk to a distant bus or train--this
   in the depths of winter, with pavements icy and kerbs surrounded by
   lakes of frigid slush. As America grapples with traffic, high fuel
   prices and climate change, public transport is often suggested as an
   antidote. But, as Chicago proves all too well, innovation in public
   services can easily be stymied by old-fashioned bickering.

   There is hope that Illinois's legislators will be more productive in
   2008 than they were last year, but this is not saying much. Last March
   the state's auditor published a bleak report about greater Chicago's
   transport network. Over the previous five years operating costs had
   risen faster than revenues--6.5% each year compared with 2.2%--and
   pensions for the city's transport workers were only 34% funded as of
   2006. Lawmakers spent most of 2007 bickering over how to raise more
   money, in vain.

   Now commuters face severe reductions in service. They were already
   threatened with two such "doomsdays" last autumn, but each time the
   governor of Illinois, Rod Blagojevich, used a quick infusion of cash
   to let the argument drag on. It is unclear whether he will be able to
   do so again.

   Through all this, there has been a ready solution. Julie Hamos, a
   state representative, proposed a bill that would raise Chicago's
   property transfer tax and increase the sales tax in the metropolitan
   region's six counties. Her bill also includes reforms to the pension
   system and the Regional Transportation Authority, resolving some of
   the problems that helped create the mess in the first place.

   But this sensible bill has been stalled by the usual in-fighting. The
   governor opposes a sales-tax increase and favours diverting the sales
   tax on gasoline from the general fund. (Congestion pricing, raising
   the petrol tax itself or getting the private sector involved are not
   even part of the debate.) And in the Illinois state legislature, many
   senators and representatives from rural and suburban districts have
   refused to help unless they get something in return. Politicians are
   now fighting over how to expand gambling to pay for capital projects,
   a brawl that seems likely to drag on for some time.

   Ineptitude on this scale comes at a heavy price. Hacking away at the
   public-transport system, America's second-biggest, will not help
   Chicago's bid to host the 2016 Olympics. And failing to invest in
   transport could be costing the region $2 billion a year, argues
   Chicago Metropolis 2020, a civic group. At a hearing in November,
   parents described how service cuts would force their children to walk
   to school through dangerous areas. Others explained how hard it would
   be to get to work. If Illinois's politicians were trying to
   demonstrate how not to tackle a serious issue, they could hardly do
   better.


   The rise and fall of the shopping mall

                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images

   THE Southdale shopping centre in Minnesota has an atrium, a food
   court, fountains and acres of parking. Its shops include a Dairy
   Queen, a Victoria's Secret and a purveyor of comic T-shirts. It may
   not seem like a landmark, as important to architectural history as the
   Louvre or New York's Woolworth Building. But it is. "Ohmigod!" chimes
   a group of teenage girls, on learning that they are standing in the
   world's first true shopping mall. "That is the coolest thing anybody
   has said to us all day."

   In the past half century Southdale and its many imitators have
   transformed shopping habits, urban economies and teenage speech.
   America now has some 1,100 enclosed shopping malls, according to the
   International Council of Shopping Centres. Clones have appeared from
   Chennai to Martinique. Yet the mall's story is far from triumphal.
   Invented by a European socialist who hated cars and came to deride his
   own creation, it has a murky future. While malls continue to multiply
   outside America, they are gradually dying in the country that
   pioneered them.

   Southdale's creator arrived in America as a refugee from Nazi-occupied
   Vienna. Victor Gruen was a Jewish bohemian who began to design shops
   for fellow immigrants in New York after failing in cabaret theatre.
   His work was admired partly for its uncluttered, modernist look, which
   seemed revolutionary in 1930s America. But Gruen's secret was the way
   he used arcades and eye-level display cases to lure customers into
   stores almost against their will. As a critic complained, his shops
   were like mousetraps. A few years later the same would be said of his
   shopping malls.

   By the 1940s department stores were already moving to the suburbs.
   Some had begun to build adjacent strips of shops, which they filled
   with boutiques in an attempt to re-create urban shopping districts. In
   1947 a shopping centre opened in Los Angeles featuring two department
   stores, a cluster of small shops and a large car park. It was, in
   effect, an outdoor shopping mall. Fine for balmy southern California,
   perhaps, but not for Minnesota's harsh climate. Commissioned to build
   a shopping centre at Southdale in 1956, Gruen threw a roof over the
   structure and installed an air-conditioning system to keep the
   temperature at 75°F (24°C)--which a contemporary press release called
   "Eternal Spring". The mall was born.

   Gruen got an extraordinary number of things right first time. He built
   a sloping road around the perimeter of the mall, so that half of the
   shoppers entered on the ground floor and half on the first
   floor--something that became a standard feature of malls. Southdale's
   balconies were low, so that shoppers could see the shops on the floor
   above or below them. The car park had animal signs to help shoppers
   remember the way back to their vehicles. It was as though Orville and
   Wilbur Wright had not just discovered powered flight but had built a
   plane with tray tables and a duty-free service.

   Oddly, this most suburban American invention was supposed to evoke a
   European city centre. Hence Southdale's density and its atrium, where
   shoppers were expected to sit and debate over cups of coffee, just as
   they do in the Piazza San Marco or the Place Dauphine. Gruen exiled
   cars, which he thought noisy and anti-social, to the outside of his
   mall. Most contemporary critics thought Gruen had succeeded in
   bringing urbanity to the suburbs. Southdale was "more like downtown
   than downtown itself", claimed the Architectural Record. Another
   asserted, in a rare example of journalistic hyperbole that turned out
   to be absolutely right, that the indoor shopping mall was henceforth
   "part of the American way".

   As Jeffrey Hardwick explains in his excellent biography, Gruen did not
   believe his creation would take business away from downtown shopping
   districts. He saw it as an adjunct to them. If indoor shopping centres
   harmed any businesses, Gruen dearly hoped it would be the fast-food
   stands and tacky strip malls that were sprouting like weeds along main
   roads. Southdale's first tenants shared this sanguine view. When it
   opened it was filled not with national chains but with second branches
   of downtown merchants.

   By the 1970s malls were proliferating. Gruen toured America promoting
   his invention. Malls began to open in Europe too--where, Gruen was
   presumably surprised to learn, they were seen as quintessentially
   American. At home, two developments speeded their growth. The first
   was a change in the tax code which allowed investors to write down a
   large proportion of a new building's cost as a loss. That made malls
   much more profitable. The second was a widespread property-tax revolt
   that deprived local governments of their most reliable source of
   income. Desperate, they tried to lure businesses that they could milk
   for taxes. They were particularly keen on shopping malls.

   Tribes of the mall

   By the early 1980s indoor shopping centres were woven tightly into
   American culture. New cuisines (the term is perhaps too grand) emerged
   in them, thanks to chains like Cinnabon and Panda Express, which did
   not exist outside malls. They began to swell to the point of
   absurdity. Canada's West Edmonton Mall, which opened in 1982, has an
   ice-skating rink, a pool with sea-lions and an indoor bungee jump. The
   Mall of America, in Minnesota, has three rollercoasters and more than
   500 shops arranged in "streets" designed to appeal to different age
   groups. Every morning it opens early to accommodate a group of "mall
   walkers" who trudge around its 0.57-mile perimeter for exercise.

   Artists and urban anthropologists began to note the appearance of
   mall-based tribes. Most celebrated--and lampooned--were the Valley
   girls who congregated in California's Glendale Galleria. Frank Zappa's
   then-teenage daughter, Moon Unit, wrote a hit song that captured their
   argot ("ohmigod!", "no biggie", "grody to the max", "total space
   cadet") and praised the Galleria for having "like, all these, like,
   really great shoe stores". Mall-oriented films followed, spreading the
   Valley girls' culture like spores in the wind.

   Just as the onward march of malls began to seem unstoppable, though,
   things began to go wrong. In just a few years they turned from temples
   of consumption to receptacles for social problems. The changing
   attitude to shopping malls can be seen in two films, both of which,
   appropriately, are to cinema what Panda Express is to the Chinese
   culinary tradition.

   George Romero's "Dawn of the Dead", released in 1978, is ostensibly a
   story about a group of people struggling to survive in a world taken
   over by flesh-eating zombies. But it is also a commentary on the lurid
   appeal of shopping malls, which were then multiplying quickly. That
   becomes clear a third of the way through the film, when the humans
   must decide where to take refuge. They rule out the cities, which are
   thick with monsters. Yet they need food, water and fuel, which are
   hard to find in the wilderness. They decide to head for a suburban
   shopping mall.

                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images

                      Southdale in its gleaming heyday

   There are a few zombies at the mall when the refugees arrive,
   staggering about aimlessly in a fashion familiar to Christmas
   shoppers. As one character explains, the monsters seem to have been
   drawn there by instinct: the mall was clearly an important place in
   their lives. Most of the humans are similarly intoxicated by the
   variety of goods on display. That worries the film's heroine, Fran.
   "I'm afraid," she says. "You're hypnotised by this place, all of you.
   It's all so bright and neatly wrapped that you don't see that it can
   be a prison." Nonsense, replies her boyfriend: "We got everything we
   need right here!" The rest of the film bears out the horror-movie
   dictum that nervous young women are always right.

   In 1995 a much gloomier vision of the shopping mall appeared. If "Dawn
   of the Dead" suggested malls were monstrously appealing, Kevin Smith's
   "Mallrats" depicted them simply as magnets for dysfunctional youth.
   The film chronicles the mundane adventures of four young men who come
   to a New Jersey mall to hang out, complain about their girlfriends and
   annoy security guards. The shopkeepers loathe them because, as the
   manager of Fashionable Male, a clothes shop, puts it, they lack a
   "shopping agenda". Indeed, they lack much of an agenda at all. In Mr
   Smith's mall everybody is a kind of zombie. As the film's tagline
   explained: "They're not there to work. They're not there to shop.
   They're just there."

                                                  [spacer.gif] [gray.gif]
                                                             [spacer.gif]
       So many shopping malls have died or are dying that a new hobby has
                                  appeared: amateur shopping-mall history
                                                             [spacer.gif]
                                                               [gray.gif]

   By the 1990s malls were in trouble. Having bred too quickly, they
   began to cannibalise each other. (Turn left out of Southdale's car
   park and the first building you pass is another shopping mall.)
   Discount shops, factory-outlet stores and category killers like Toys
   "R" Us ate into their profits. As middle-aged shoppers began to
   disappear, the teenagers who had inhabited malls from the beginning
   became more noticeable, which only made things worse. In 1998 Good
   Housekeeping ran a story entitled "Danger at the Mall". Indoor
   shopping malls are now so out of favour that not one will be built in
   America before 2009 at the earliest, according to the International
   Council of Shopping Centres.

   One reason for the malls' problems is that the suburbs have changed.
   When the Southdale shopping centre opened on the outskirts of
   Minneapolis, the suburbs were almost entirely white and middle-class.
   Whites were fleeing a wave of new arrivals from the South (the black
   population of Minneapolis rose by 155% between 1940 and 1960).
   Although Gruen could not bear to admit it, his invention appealed to
   those who wanted downtown's shops without its purported dangers. These
   days, in Minneapolis as in much of America, the ethnic drift is in the
   opposite direction. The suburbs are becoming much more racially mixed
   while the cities fill up with hip, affluent whites. As a result,
   suburban malls no longer provide a refuge from diversity.

   So many malls have died or are dying that a new hobby has appeared:
   amateur shopping-mall history. Like many esoteric pursuits, this has
   been facilitated by the internet. Websites such as [3]Deadmalls.com
   and [4]Labelscar.com collect pictures of weedy car parks and empty
   food courts and try to explain how once-thriving shopping centres
   began to spiral downward. Some of the recollections are faintly ironic
   or gloating. Yet the strongest note is anguish. Implausibly, these
   online histories reveal the deep emotional connections that people can
   establish with malls.

   One of the most touching is a [5]website devoted to Lakehurst mall
   near Chicago, which was demolished in 2004. Prodded by a local
   journalist, women and a few men write in with memories of
   back-to-school shopping trips, ear piercings, first jobs at Cinnabon
   and Orange Julius, early dates and even marriage proposals. Many are
   bereft at the mall's demolition, as though suffering the death of a
   pet. "You don't realise how much you miss something until it is gone,"
   writes one. Others are almost apologetic: "If only we knew what we
   had, we would never have strayed to other malls."

   As shopping malls decline, they sometimes come to resemble the civic
   centres that Gruen intended them to be. Attracted by cheap rents,
   community groups and police stations move in. On a trip to one of
   Gruen's creations, the now-desolate Carousel Mall in San Bernardino,
   your correspondent encountered a group of middle-aged Mexicans
   studying for the American citizenship test.

   Not all malls have suffered from competition and the suburbs'
   transformation. Some have prospered by appealing to growing
   ethnic-minority groups. American malls are courting middle-class
   Latinos by adding butchers' shops and, in some cases, by decking
   themselves out to resemble Mexican villages. La Gran Plaza, in the
   Texas town of Fort Worth, lays on mariachi and reggaeton acts and is
   building a rodeo. Other malls changed their clientele without
   adjusting their look. Brent Cross shopping centre, one of Britain's
   earliest malls, now contains shops staffed by second- and
   third-generation Asians selling to new arrivals from eastern Europe.

   The mall goes downtown

   Yet without white, middle-aged women few British or American shopping
   centres could survive. One bold attempt to lure them back can be seen
   at the corner of Third Street and Fairfax Boulevard in Los Angeles.
   The Grove shopping centre, which opened in 2002, performs all the
   functions of a mall without looking at all like one. Like Southdale,
   it has fountains, flowers, piped music and a good selection of
   underwear. But the Grove is open to the elements, the plants are real
   and, rather than vaguely evoking a town centre, it is actually done up
   to look like one. Or rather (this being Los Angeles) a fantasy amalgam
   of several town centres.

   Among the Grove's 40 or so buildings are a Caribbean house with
   shutters and a wooden balcony, an Art Deco cinema and a grand Beaux
   Arts building that houses a branch of the clothes shop Abercrombie &
   Fitch. Its fountains are choreographed to songs by Frank Sinatra and
   Sammy Davis junior. Every few minutes a tram trundles through the
   shopping centre. The tram's driver rings his bell almost constantly,
   because the other thing that distinguishes the Grove from an
   old-fashioned mall is that it is nearly always packed.

   The Grove was built by Rick Caruso (below), a dapper man who owns
   eight shopping centres in southern California and has three more under
   way. His next project, a 16-acre development with a large public
   square, apartments and lots more fountains, will open in 2008 next to
   the Glendale Galleria. He also plans to build an open-air shopping
   centre by a race track in the city of Arcadia, where the weary will be
   transported from shop to shop in a horse-drawn carriage. It is a sign
   of the popularity of his developments, as well as the bleak future of
   conventional malls, that the owners of nearby shopping centres are
   fighting hard to stop him.

                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images

                   Rick Caruso and his "lifestyle centre"

   Mr Caruso doesn't think he builds malls. The industry term is
   "lifestyle centres"; he calls his creations simply "streets". Nor can
   he claim to have invented the outdoor shopping centre. Before Gruen's
   revolutionary designs, all shopping centres were open to the sky. But
   Mr Caruso has brought the open-air mall to a pitch of ersatz
   perfection. It is partly thanks to him, and particularly the Grove,
   that every new shopping centre built in America next year will be
   roofless (and several traditional shopping malls will tear off their
   roofs). Open-air centres will appear not just in temperate places like
   southern California but also in muggy Houston and frigid
   Massachusetts.

   The mix-and-match appearance of the "lifestyle centres" is thought to
   be key to their appeal. Mr Caruso and his designers visit cities as
   diverse as Savannah and Capri to measure buildings and try to capture
   their appeal. Architectural styles are jumbled together with the aim
   of creating a festive, holiday atmosphere which people go to hang out
   in and end up spending money. "After all," says Mr Caruso, "you buy
   things when you're on holiday that you wouldn't buy otherwise." But Mr
   Caruso also claims, more boldly, that his creations are more "real"
   and authentic than conventional shopping centres.

   It is an odd claim for a man whose signature style is a mish-mash of
   two continents' and several centuries' worth of architectural
   traditions. But, like Gruen half a century ago, Mr Caruso has a bold
   vision for his developments. Indeed, his vision is rather similar to
   Gruen's. Like the Austrian émigré, Mr Caruso believes that people are
   naturally gregarious, and that America has failed to provide them with
   places that meet their social needs. Like Gruen, he claims to be
   trying to create not just profitable shopping places but also more
   perfect city centres.

   There is one crucial difference. Gruen wanted to improve upon the
   American city centre by modernising and Europeanising it. Mr Caruso,
   by contrast, looks to the past. He has tried to re-create a kind of
   prelapsarian downtown where there is no crime or homelessness. His
   romantic evocations of city centres are possible only because people
   have forgotten what downtowns used to be like. And they have
   forgotten, of course, largely because of the suburban shopping malls
   that Gruen built. It was necessary to kill the American city centre
   before bringing it back to life.


   Some helpful subsidies from Harvard and Yale 

   WEAK dollar or no, $46,000--the price for a single year of
   undergraduate instruction amid the red brick of Harvard Yard--is
   expensive. But nowadays cost is no barrier to entry at many of
   America's best universities. Formidable financial-assistance policies
   have eliminated fees or slashed them deeply for needy students. And
   last month Harvard announced a new plan designed to relieve the
   sticker-shock for undergraduates from middle and even upper-income
   families too.

   Since then, other rich American universities have unveiled similar
   initiatives. Yale, Harvard's bitterest rival, revealed its plans on
   January 14th. Students whose families make less than $60,000 a year
   will pay nothing at all. Families earning up to $200,000 a year will
   have to pay an average of 10% of their incomes. The university will
   expand its financial-assistance budget by 43%, to over $80m.

   Harvard will have a similar arrangement for families making up to
   $180,000. That makes the price of going to Harvard or Yale comparable
   to attending a state-run university for middle- and upper-income
   students. The universities will also not require any student to take
   out loans to pay for their tuition, a policy introduced by Princeton
   in 2001 and by the University of Pennsylvania just after Harvard's
   announcement. No applicant who gains admission, officials say, should
   feel pressured to go elsewhere because he or she can't afford the
   fees.

   None of that is quite as altruistic as it sounds. Harvard and Yale
   are, after all, now likely to lure more students away from previously
   cheaper options, particularly state-run universities, enhancing their
   already impressive admissions figures and reputations.

   The schemes also provide a model for structuring university fees in
   which high prices for rich students help offset modest prices for
   poorer ones and families are less reliant on federal grants and
   government-backed loans.

   Less wealthy private colleges whose fees are high will not be able to
   copy Harvard or Yale easily. But America's state-run universities,
   which have traditionally kept their fees low and stable, might well
   try a differentiated pricing scheme as they raise cash to compete
   academically with their private counterparts. Indeed, the University
   of California system has already started to implement a sliding-fee
   scale.


   Health care is a bigger problem than poverty in America

   WITH an election looming, even the driest documents can spark fury.
   Hillary Clinton expressed "outrage" at the news contained in the
   Census Bureau's latest report on income, poverty and health insurance
   in the United States, which was released on August 28th. Barack Obama
   said it represented "a betrayal of the ideals we hold as Americans".
   John Edwards, reviving a well-worn theme, said it confirmed that there
   are "two Americas". To anyone not running for president, however, the
   report contained both good news and bad.

   The good news is that the average American is a little better off, and
   the proportion of Americans who are poor has dwindled a little. Real
   median household income rose by 0.7% from 2005 to 2006, to $48,201.
   And the official poverty rate fell from 12.6% to 12.3%. The bad news
   is that the number and proportion of Americans who lack health
   insurance continued to climb, from 44.8m (15.3%) to 47m (15.8%).

   Together, these numbers hardly represent the disaster leading
   Democrats say they do, but neither are they cause for unrestrained
   glee. Median household income is still below its peak in 1999, and has
   grown more slowly than income per head, as the rich have gained more
   than those in the middle. Confusingly, even as median incomes rose,
   median earnings for full-time workers fell by about 1% between 2005
   and 2006. The explanation is that more people are working longer
   hours.

   This lends itself to the sound-bite that Americans are working longer
   hours for lower wages, but that may be misleading. It is not clear
   that the same people are being paid less for the hours they work.
   Rather, it may be that more unskilled people are starting to work
   full-time instead of part-time or not at all, and therefore bringing
   down the average, says Gary Burtless of the Brookings Institution, a
   think-tank. The census data also fail to take account of George Bush's
   generous tax cuts, which have boosted take-home pay. On the other
   hand, they are too old to reflect the fallout from this year's market
   turmoil, which could be grave.

   The poverty figures are both less accurate and more hopeful. It sounds
   awful to say that 36.5m Americans are living in poverty. But "poverty"
   in America, as defined by the Census Bureau, does not mean
   destitution. A typical poor American lives in a three-bedroom house
   with a car, air-conditioning and two televisions. His children
   actually eat more meat than rich kids do. And he receives substantial
   benefits that the census bizarrely excludes from its calculations.

   Americans are deemed poor if their pre-tax income falls below a
   certain threshold--for example, $20,614 for a family of four. By this
   measure, the proportion of Americans who are poor is no better today
   than it was in the 1970s. But this is nonsense. The census ignores
   non-cash benefits such as government health insurance, food stamps and
   subsidised housing. It also ignores the earned-income tax credit, a
   wage subsidy for the working poor that is reckoned to be one of
   America's most effective anti-poverty measures. On the day the census
   report appeared, Michael Bloomberg, New York's mayor and a possible
   independent presidential candidate, called for a huge expansion of the
   earned-income tax credit and a serious re-think of how poverty is
   measured.

   This week's gloomiest news concerns health insurance. As medical costs
   soar, more firms are opting not to provide their staff with coverage.
   The government provides insurance for the poor and the elderly through
   monster programmes called Medicaid and Medicare. But that still leaves
   a big hole in the safety net, through which a swelling crowd of
   Americans is falling. Many states have tried to stitch up the hole by
   expanding Medicaid to include people who are not quite poor, and by
   enrolling more children in the federally funded State Children's
   Health Insurance Programme (SCHIP).

   This is expensive, however. On August 17th the Bush administration
   imposed new restrictions to curb costs. Several states allow children
   to join SCHIP if their family income is as much as 250% of the poverty
   line. But under the new rules, states will have to demonstrate that
   95% of children with family incomes below 200% of the poverty line are
   enrolled before they can raise the bar to 250%. Whereas it makes sense
   to try to reach the poorest first, the 95% target is unattainable,
   says John Colmers, the secretary of health in Maryland. Poor families
   are often too disorganised to fill in forms, and many are illegal
   aliens shy of any contact with officialdom.

   The uninsured can still see a doctor by going to a hospital emergency
   room. But, as a glance at the crowded waiting area of the Johns
   Hopkins hospital in Baltimore reveals, that usually means a long wait.
   The uninsured often "don't seek help until they are really sick," says
   Ed Beranek, a director at the hospital. "By the time they arrive, that
   cold has turned into pneumonia." For lack of timely preventive
   measures, the uninsured get sicker than they need to and cost more to
   treat. That extra cost is then passed on to everyone else who uses the
   hospital.

   The politicians agree that the system is dysfunctional, but disagree
   on how to fix it. Democratic presidential candidates are pushing for
   universal coverage largely through greater public spending. The
   Republicans want to tinker with the current system to make private
   insurance more affordable. Rudy Giuliani, the Republican front-runner,
   says people should be able to buy insurance from any state, not just
   their own. That should make the market more competitive. Mitt Romney,
   another Republican, says that individuals should be allowed to buy
   health insurance with pre-tax dollars. (Currently, and unfairly, only
   employer-provided health insurance gets this tax break.) Critics note,
   however, that increasing the subsidy will surely stoke yet more
   health-care inflation.


   Gloating too soon 
   "Panic: Down by 13 points, Hill goes ballistic."

   Front-page headline of the New York Post, above unflattering photo of
   Hillary Clinton, January 7th. 

   It takes a village idiot 
   "Iron my shirt! Iron my shirt!"

   Two men in the audience offer Mrs Clinton some policy advice, January
   7th. 

   Poor thing 
   "Well, that hurts my feelings...I don't think I'm that bad."

   Hillary Clinton, asked why people don't think her likeable. ABC,
   January 5th. 

   Faint praise 
   "You're likeable enough, Hillary."

   Barack Obama offering comfort to his rival. ABC, January 5th. 

   But his teeth are perfect, too 
   "The chairman of Governor Huckabee's campaign said he'd like to knock
   my teeth out. My only comment on that is: Don't touch the hair."

   Mitt Romney, addressing the "too-pretty-to-be-president" question,
   [3]CNN.com, January 3rd.

   It's the other man from Hope 
   "We don't have men calling for our daughter."

   Connie Davis, a Christian whose 15-year-old daughter asked her family
   to donate to Mike Huckabee's campaign instead of giving her Christmas
   presents. Mr Huckabee tried to thank her, and her father answered the
   phone. New Hampshire Union-Leader, January 7th.

   Going negative 
   "Ronald Reagan did amnesty [for illegal immigrants]. I think he'd be
   in one of Mitt's negative commercials."

   Rudy Giuliani, joining the Romney-bashing at the Republican debate,
   January 5th. 


   Drugs and immigration woes are hurting parks along the border

   THE Rio Grande, whose sharp turn gives Big Bend National Park its
   name, is little more than a muddy creek these days. Drought and
   irrigation have sapped its strength. Deep canyons enclose the river at
   several spots, but Mexicans can still easily cross over. Plenty do so,
   illegally. Last year 1,160 people were caught in the park,
   which--together with an adjacent "wild and scenic" river
   area--stretches for 245 miles (395km), or about one-fifth of Texas's
   border with Mexico. More than 23,000lb (10,433kg) of marijuana were
   seized in the park, too--a huge jump from the previous year, though no
   one quite knows why. Seizures have since fallen back to their previous
   levels again.

   Visitors to Big Bend are more likely to see herds of pig-like
   javelinas than illegal human activity. But at border parks across
   America smuggling is a huge headache. Rangers must worry not only
   about rescuing lost hikers and conserving nature, but also about
   security. Elsewhere in Texas, officials at Padre Island National
   Seashore, working with the Coast Guard and other agencies, seize about
   25,000lb of marijuana each year from incoming boats.

   The worst-hit place is Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument in Arizona,
   which is part of the parks system. In 2002 a young ranger on patrol
   there was killed by drug dealers. Last year the Park Service arrested
   1,300 people for illegal activity and nabbed 17,000lb of marijuana.
   The Border Patrol arrested another 6,500 people on the park's land,
   and impounded more drugs. Rangers spend most of their time on security
   issues, says Kathy Billings, the park superintendent--and the traffic
   has created a "spiderweb" of illegal trails, not to mention rubbish,
   that damage the fragile landscape.

   The good news is that the very features that distinguish parks--rugged
   terrain, glaciers, rushing water, a lack of roads--usually obstruct
   smugglers. But even the mountainous parks bordering Canada have their
   troubles. North Cascades National Park, in the north-west, may be the
   only park in America to have captured someone who tried to carry out a
   terrorist plot. Abu Mezer, a Palestinian, was arrested in 1996 in
   North Cascades and was sent back to Canada. After trying several more
   times to enter America, he was arrested in New York City in 1997 in
   connection with a plot to bomb the subway.

   Nowadays, at North Cascades as elsewhere near Canada, the main problem
   is drugs. Immigration and customs officials recently announced that a
   joint operation with Canadian Mounties, Operation Frozen Timber, had
   confiscated 8,000lb of marijuana and 800lb of cocaine in and around
   the park since 2004. The smugglers were using helicopters to drop
   marijuana into North Cascades and the nearby national forests; the
   cocaine was mostly going the other way, into Canada.

   To the east, in Glacier National Park, there have been a few
   documented cases of illegal cross-border traffic--though the
   mountains, cliffs and grizzlies act as a deterrent, says Patrick
   Suddath, a ranger. Glacier allows boats from its sister park in Canada
   to enter at a scenic spot called Goat Haunt, but only Canadians and
   Americans with the proper documents may venture beyond the ranger
   station.

   Border tightening has also changed the way of life in some parks. In
   the old days at Big Bend, Mexican villagers would routinely cross the
   border to sell their wares and to buy milk and petrol from park
   stores. American tourists also liked to venture over to the Mexican
   side for a tortilla or cerveza; Mexicans provided transport in the
   form of boats and burros. But all crossings at Big Bend were closed in
   2002. A petrol station in Big Bend's Rio Grande village promptly lost
   75% of its revenue, and the Mexicans let their newly unemployed burros
   loose, resulting in a burro explosion. The park makes an exception now
   only for 40 or so Mexican firemen, who are on standby for summer
   blazes.

   Parks must also keep wildlife in mind, since bears and elk do not
   pause for borders. Just last month Organ Pipe completed a vehicle
   barrier that is supposed to stop cars but allow the endangered Sonoran
   pronghorn, a type of antelope, to slip underneath. At Big Bend
   officials are circumspect about proposals in Congress to erect a fence
   across parts of the southern border, though their own park is not
   included in current bills. "You would not have any desire to build a
   fence on top of a 1,500-foot escarpment," says David Elkowitz, the
   park's interpretation chief. Even without a fence, dreams of creating
   an international park along the border, joining Mexican and American
   land, seem permanently on hold.


                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images

   Hillary Clinton's triumph in New Hampshire portends a thrilling race 


   LAST May, the Onion ran a picture of Barack Obama standing behind the
   junior senator from New York with the headline: "Hillary Clinton
   Threatened by Black Man". The spoof newspaper was prescient. On
   January 3rd in Iowa, Mr Obama walloped Mrs Clinton by eight percentage
   points. John Edwards, a former senator who blames greedy corporations
   for most of the world's troubles, nudged her into third place. The
   polls, which only last month put Mrs Clinton 30 points ahead
   nationally, suddenly showed her crashing towards oblivion. Mr Obama
   looked set to romp to the Democratic nomination.

   Hostile pundits waltzed on Mrs Clinton's political grave. "Thank you,
   Senator Obama," wrote Bill Kristol, a conservative columnist. "There
   will be no Clinton Restoration. A nation turns its grateful eyes to
   you." He danced too soon. Though the polls said she would lose heavily
   in New Hampshire on January 8th, she won, by 39% to 36%. "Together,
   let's give America the kind of comeback that New Hampshire has just
   given me," she beamed.

   The policy differences between the two leading Democrats are slight.
   Neither of them is George Bush. Both would pull American forces out of
   Iraq as soon as circumstances allow. Both would fight climate change.
   Mrs Clinton promises universal health insurance; Mr Obama would make
   it nearly universal. But this is not what excites their supporters.

   As the Onion suggested, the contest is flavoured by race and sex.
   Democrats would love to pick America's first black president. They
   would also love to pick its first female one. But they cannot do both;
   at least not this year. So they must choose. If women, who are a
   majority of the electorate, want first and foremost to put one of
   their own in the Oval Office, that obviously favours Mrs Clinton.
   There are not nearly as many black voters as female ones, but there
   are plenty of whites who yearn to prove that they are not racist. Mr
   Obama makes such people feel good about themselves.

   Mrs Clinton does not have the same soothing effect on male voters; for
   some, quite the opposite. But she is more experienced than her rival,
   having advised a president (her husband) for eight years. She also has
   awesome stamina, an orderly mind, a terrific organisation and a will
   to power that would make Nietzsche sit up and take notice.

   She met her loss in Iowa with her customary steel. She modified her
   stump speech, trying to sound more empathetic by talking softly and
   taking more questions from the audience. And she stepped up what she
   once called "the fun part" of the campaign--attacking her opponent.

   She poured scorn on his inexperience. It is not enough to hope for
   change, she said; you have to work for it. The idea that Mr Obama can
   live up to expectations is "the biggest fairy tale I have ever seen,"
   said her husband. Mrs Clinton zapped Mr Obama for flip-flopping. He
   used to favour universal health insurance, she said; now he doesn't.
   He opposed the Iraq war but voted to pay for its continuation.

   Mrs Clinton's speeches still include a long and slightly tedious list
   of micro-policies. She cannot whip up ecstasy the way Mr Obama does.
   But governing is not about making pretty speeches, say her supporters.
   It is about getting things done. That, of course, is what Republicans
   said when a certain slick young governor of Arkansas ran against
   George Bush senior, a sitting president, war hero, former ambassador
   and former head of the CIA.

   The day before the New Hampshire vote, Mrs Clinton looked sad and
   vulnerable. Someone asked how she coped. "It's not easy," she said,
   growing teary-eyed. "I couldn't do it if I just didn't passionately
   believe it was the right thing to do." Of possible defeat she said: "I
   just don't want to see [America] fall backwards."

   Victory in New Hampshire tossed her a lifeline when she was expecting
   a whack on the head with a boathook. Many people support her because
   they think she is the best woman for the job. But some do so only
   because they think she is the Democrat most likely to beat the
   Republican nominee in November. Many of her donors, too, open their
   wallets in the hope of future access to power. Had she lost two states
   in a row, those wallets would have started snapping shut.

   Mrs Clinton's remarkable comeback took place in the same state where
   her husband labelled himself "the Comeback Kid" after coming second in
   1992. As a candidate, the brilliant but disorganised Bill Clinton
   benefited hugely from his wife's complementary talents: her discipline
   helped keep him focused. With roles reversed, it ought to be harder.
   Bill cannot easily lend Hillary his charisma. But the political
   machine the two Clintons built together can work for either of them.

   And that machine does seem to have made the difference. If the exit
   polls are right, there was no late surge of people suddenly deciding
   to support Mrs Clinton. Her real advantage was among those who made up
   their mind more than a month ago, a group she won by 48% to 31%. So
   the pre-election polls were wrong, not because people changed their
   minds at the last moment, but because telephone pollsters
   underestimated Mrs Clinton's ability to drive and drag her supporters
   to the polling stations, argues Jay Cost of [4]RealClearPolitics.com,
   a political website.

   The exit polls also suggest that Mrs Clinton won New Hampshire by
   winning over traditional types of Democrat. She beat Mr Obama among
   registered Democrats, people over 40, union families, voters without
   college degrees and families making less than $50,000 a year. Mr Obama
   won the independents who voted in the Democratic primary, the
   first-time voters, the young, the college-educated and the well-off.
   Voters who said they were falling behind economically opted for Mrs
   Clinton; those who feel they are getting ahead preferred Mr Obama's
   more upbeat message.

   And the biggest change since Iowa was that Mrs Clinton, who lost the
   female vote to Mr Obama there, won it back convincingly in New
   Hampshire, by 46% to 34%. Mr Obama won the male vote by 40% to 29%,
   but more women than men showed up to vote (57% to 43%).

   The polls suggest that Mrs Clinton could win the next race, in Nevada,
   and Mr Obama will win South Carolina, which has a large black
   population. Anything might then happen on February 5th, when more than
   20 states vote. Both candidates have the cash and the fame to compete.
   But the momentum is back with Mrs Clinton. The dynasty is not dead, at
   least not yet.


   Hillary Clinton unveils a promising health plan

   AFTER months of preparation, Hillary Clinton this week finally put
   forward her new plan to provide health coverage for all Americans.
   Crucially, she did it without calling for the large government
   bureaucracy envisaged by her earlier attempt at reform in 1993, dubbed
   "Hillarycare" by its detractors.

   Barack Obama and John Edwards were quick to dismiss her plan this
   week, but that may be because her well-crafted effort improves on
   theirs. The three Democratic candidates' plans are similar in that
   they all aim to help the 47m or so uninsured to get coverage. However,
   they differ in important details (see chart).

   The most important component of Mrs Clinton's plan is its universal
   mandate. All individuals will be required to purchase health insurance
   if they are not already covered, just as under a new programme in
   Massachusetts (and under Mr Edwards's plan). This matters because
   without such a mandate, many young and healthy people opt out, raising
   the cost of insuring the remaining, sicker people. Mr Obama slips
   around on this point, invoking a mandate only for children.

   That is because he knows such mandates can be unpopular with many
   middle class voters, for whom insurance can prove too expensive. To
   help ease this crunch, the Massachusetts reform plan offers targeted
   subsidies as well as a rejigging of the insurance market with the aim
   of ensuring inexpensive, "bare bones" coverage packages are on offer.

   Mrs Clinton tackles this problem of affordability in several ways. Her
   plan also offers subsidies to help the poor buy insurance. Individuals
   can either buy insurance from private firms directly, through a scheme
   that currently serves federal employees or from a new scheme modelled
   on and administered by Medicare, a government programme that treats
   the poor. (The non-poor would have to pay to join the new programme,
   which would compete with private health providers.) Most strikingly,
   she envisages imposing a cap on the maximum premium that any family
   would have to pay for health insurance: beyond a certain (as yet
   unspecified) share of household income, the family would get
   subsidies.

   The other half of Mrs Clinton's mandate affects employers. Like her
   Democratic rivals, she plans to oblige all firms to offer health
   insurance to workers. Many big firms already do so because the federal
   government provides a tax subsidy for employer-provided health
   insurance (but, unfairly, not for insurance purchased by self-employed
   individuals). But even with this break, small firms often cannot
   afford to offer coverage, and bigger ones are being forced to cut
   back.

   Mr Obama excludes small firms from his mandate. Mr Edwards insists on
   a "pay or play" provision: if firms do not offer coverage they must
   pay what is in effect a payroll tax. Mrs Clinton uses both carrots and
   sticks. She uses the payroll tax approach with big firms, but gives a
   subsidy to small businesses to encourage them to offer health
   insurance. The sum of all these parts, argues Jason Furman of the
   Hamilton Project, a policy outfit in Washington, DC, is "a
   substantively good and politically clever" health plan.

   But how much will all this end up costing? About $110 billion per
   year, Mrs Clinton's team reckons. One way she intends to pay for that
   is to roll back George Bush's recent tax cuts for the richest people.

   She has also unveiled a series of proposals over the past six months
   that encourage savings in the health sector to offset much of that new
   cost: improved efficiency, greater use of information technology,
   electronic medical records, improved quality of care and so on.
   Independent experts agree that big savings in those areas are
   possible, but caution that reform will not be easy to implement.

   But what if those ambitious savings do not come quickly, or if the
   subsidies end up costing much more? Regina Herzlinger of Harvard
   Business School applauds Mrs Clinton's push for universal coverage,
   but cautions that the cost of her approach may be closer to $150
   billion-200 billion per year. If so, would the plan then require a
   vast expansion of Medicare or huge new taxes--Hillarycare by the back
   door, as some critics say?

   Not necessarily, argues Mr Furman. He observes that alone among her
   rivals, Mrs Clinton has dared to propose reforming the employer tax
   break for providing health insurance. Jonathan Gruber of MIT
   calculates that this tax distortion costs the taxpayer $225 billion a
   year--money he thinks could be redeployed to scale up the
   Massachusetts experiment nationally.

   For now, Mrs Clinton proposes scaling back the tax break only for the
   richest Americans, those whose households earn more than $250,000 a
   year. That would save only a few billion dollars a year, but it would
   establish that this indefensible but hugely popular tax distortion is
   no longer untouchable. In time, the proposal could prove to be the
   thin end of a wedge that overturns that benefit altogether, freeing up
   a large kitty that could finance the move to universal care.


   What a new park reveals about attitudes to public space

   JUST east of downtown Irvine, in southern California, a bucolic
   landscape is under construction. Little by little, a former military
   airport is being dismantled, to be replaced by grass, trees and a
   canyon 70 feet (21 metres) deep. When it is finished, Orange county's
   Great Park will cover 1,350 acres (550 hectares), more than
   one-and-a-half times as much as Central Park in New York. The biggest
   landscaped municipal park to be built in more than a century, it
   reveals much about how American attitudes to open space have changed.

   Urban parks are back in fashion. In Denver, an 80-acre park opened in
   September on the site of another disused airport. New York plans to
   build a huge park on top of the Fresh Kills landfill in Staten Island.
   Innumerable town squares and pocket parks have been created or
   beautified, even in gritty places like Detroit. City planners, who
   once viewed parks as financial drains and nests of crime, now see them
   as magnets for tourists and creative types.

   The great parks that were built in the second half of the 19th century
   were intended to counteract the ill effects of city living, and so are
   the new ones. But the perceived ills have changed. Frederick Olmsted,
   who designed Central Park and many others, wanted to provide people
   with a respite from their tough, dirty jobs. Ken Smith, the Great
   Park's architect, reckons the residents of Orange county are quite
   idle enough. What they need is exercise: hence the park's proposed 21
   football fields and 12 baseball fields, together with some
   exhausting-looking walks.

   Another difference is that parks are now expected to function like
   natural ecosystems as well as looking like them. The Great Park will
   use recycled water in its lake (older parks often used mains water).
   The runways will be pulverised and turned into roads and a memorial.
   In a nod to the local-food movement, the park will include land for
   farming and composting. Even the car park will be situated in an
   orange grove.

   Most striking of all is the new parks' deference to history. America's
   great 19th-century landscape architects saw the land as a blank slate.
   An entire village was razed to build Central Park. By contrast,
   Denver's park preserves a control tower, and the Great Park will
   convert a hangar into a museum and retain the outline of a runway. A
   river diverted underground by the marines will be restored to its
   former course. The preservation lobby is stronger these days. And
   besides, says Yehudi Gaffen, a partner in the Great Park project,
   "Southern California has so little history that we should try to keep
   some of it."


   The ex-Veep lectures Congress


   GLOBAL-WARMING sceptics, says Al Gore, are looking at a burning cradle
   and speculating that perhaps the baby is flame-resistant. Testifying
   before Congress on March 21st, the former vice-president was as
   cautious and understated as any other movie star. Mankind faces "a
   planetary emergency", he said; "a crisis that threatens the survival
   of our civilisation and the habitability of the Earth."

   He proposed a series of measures that might ward off the environmental
   apocalypse. First, freeze America's level of carbon dioxide emissions
   immediately, and then reduce it by 90% by 2050. Second, tear up the
   tax code. Without altering the total tax burden, Mr Gore thinks
   America should replace taxes on employment and production with taxes
   on pollution, particularly carbon dioxide.

   Third, use public money to help the poor make the transition to a
   low-carbon lifestyle. Fourth, forge a strong global treaty to cut
   emissions and put it into effect by 2010, two years earlier than
   currently envisaged. Fifth, stop building new coal-fired power plants,
   unless they can capture and sequester the carbon they emit.

   With the Democrats in control of Congress, environmentalists are more
   optimistic than they were last year that it might enact curbs on
   greenhouse gases. About a dozen bills are currently being considered.
   But nothing as radical as Mr Gore's proposals is likely to pass.

   Few in Congress deny that the earth is getting warmer or that man is
   at least partly to blame. But few can agree what to do about it,
   either. One obstacle is cost. Though Mr Gore denies it, freezing CO2
   emissions straight away would be ferociously expensive. That worries
   both parties. One Republican congressman fretted that Mr Gore's plan
   would mean no new industry, no new cars and no new people in America.
   John Dingell, a Democrat from the Detroit suburbs, lamented the rows
   of empty houses he sees in the city since the American car industry
   fell on hard times.

   Another obstacle is inertia. If Congress were creating a tax code from
   scratch, it might well discourage pollution rather than work, as Mr
   Gore demands. But since it is not starting from scratch, such a big
   change will hurt a lot of people now in pursuit of benefits a
   generation hence.

   A third obstacle is that many in Congress are reluctant to make big
   sacrifices if China and India do not also sign up to them, which
   neither wants to. Mr Gore says it is up to America to show leadership.

   The Democrats have two options. They can push now for the toughest
   carbon-curbing law that will survive a filibuster in the Senate and a
   possible veto by President George Bush. Or they can wait two years and
   hope to pass something tougher in 2009, with someone greener in the
   White House. Mr Gore says there is no time to waste, but Congress may
   waste it anyway.

   Meanwhile, Mr Gore appears to be enjoying the limelight. He says he
   will not seek the presidency again, but many Democrats wish he would.
   Since he quit politics for advocacy, he has sounded more passionate
   and less calculating than Hillary Clinton, the front-runner for the
   Democratic nomination. But still, only 7% of Americans think the
   environment or global warming should be the government's priority.


                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

   After Mitt Romney's victory, no one has the slightest idea who will
   win the Republican presidential nomination 


   "I'VE got Michigan in my DNA. I've got it in my heart and I've got
   cars in my bloodstream." That was Mitt Romney before he won the
   Republican primary in Michigan this week, thumping John McCain by 39%
   to 30% and leaving Mike Huckabee flat in the snow with 16%. Presumably
   he now likes the place even more.

   His rivals instantly discounted his victory. Mr Romney grew up in
   Michigan. His father, George Romney, was a popular governor in the
   1960s. The day before the primary, Mr Romney showed a friendly crowd
   at a country club some souvenirs of his dad's unsuccessful bid for the
   White House. There was a campaign comb (cue for a quip about the
   family hair), some campaign pins and a slogan: "Set our country
   straight: Romney in 68". The crowd loved it. But voters in South
   Carolina will be harder to sway.

   That said, Mr Romney ran a smarter campaign in Michigan than in Iowa
   and New Hampshire, where he aimed lots of negative ads at Mr Huckabee
   and Mr McCain but lost. In Michigan, his message was more upbeat. He
   talked a lot about the economy, and sold himself as the candidate best
   qualified to fix it. Mr McCain, who won Michigan in 2000, helped him
   by sounding gloomier. He said, probably correctly, that some of the
   jobs Michigan has lost will never come back.

   Exit polls showed that voters cared more about the economy than
   anything else. Small wonder: Michigan has stalled. Its car firms are
   ailing; its people are leaving. Unemployment, at 7.4%, is the highest
   in America. Voters judged Mr Romney most capable of easing their pain.
   A successful venture capitalist before he was governor of
   Massachusetts, he palpably knows more about money than his rivals.

   The candidates all pandered to Michigan's biggest special interest. At
   the Detroit motor show they all followed the same routine: the nod (as
   a car-company executive described the latest model), the `ah' (of
   admiration) and the fiddle (with various gadgets in the car).
   Naturally, they shunned foreign vehicles like a handshake with Osama
   bin Laden.

   Mr McCain pandered the least. On the stump, he banged on about climate
   change. (His home state of Arizona is so dry, he said, the trees chase
   the dogs.) Mr Huckabee pandered the most empathetically, staring into
   insecure workers' eyes and announcing that "there's a world of hurt
   out there in America." Mr Romney pandered with the most facts at his
   fingertips, helped by the fact that his dad was a car-firm boss before
   he was a politician.

   In his first 100 days in office, Mr Romney said he would bring
   together car firms, unions and government and make a plan to revive
   the industry. He would reduce taxes, trim regulations, make health
   insurance (a huge chunk of the cost of an American car) cheaper and
   curb frivolous lawsuits. He would also slow the tightening of
   fuel-economy standards. "Take off those burdens and let's show them
   how fast a Mustang will actually go," he said.

   Mr Romney has come first or second in all the votes so far. His people
   tout him as the most acceptable candidate to the broadest range of
   Republicans. Fiscal conservatives like him. Evangelicals may not love
   him as they do Mr Huckabee, a Baptist preacher, but they concur with
   his current positions on abortion and gay marriage. He lacks Mr
   McCain's national-security credentials, but says he will keep the
   armed forces strong. Add brains and good looks, and you have a
   plausible nominee, though his Mormonism and his policy shifts are
   problems for many.

   Mr Romney's detractors offer several rebuttals. John McCain's fans
   note that in head-to-head polls against Hillary Clinton and Barack
   Obama, their man is the only Republican who wins. But a lot could
   change before November, and the qualities that attract independent
   voters to Mr McCain, such as his liberal views on immigration, repel
   many Republicans.

   Mr Huckabee's fans reckon that Mr Romney will lose because his money
   can't buy him charisma. And it is indeed hard to imagine him strumming
   a guitar, cracking jokes about the Rolling Stones or getting in a
   snowball fight outside a polling booth, as Mr Huckabee did in
   Michigan.

   Mr Romney did well in nearly every Republican group in Michigan--he
   even beat Mr Huckabee among evangelicals. But he has yet to prove
   himself on unfamiliar terrain. And he cannot win nationally unless he
   attracts more support from less prosperous people. Shortly before he
   addressed that friendly country club, someone announced that three
   cars were parked inappropriately outside: a silver Mercedes, a red
   Jaguar and a gold one.

   Three lessons can be drawn from Michigan. One is that the race for the
   Republican nomination is even more open than before. Three frenzied
   contests have thrown up three winners. (Mr Romney also won Wyoming, a
   race his rivals skipped.) South Carolina on January 19th will be a
   bare-knuckle scrap. Rudy Giuliani, a former mayor of New York, will
   join the mêlée on January 29th in Florida. No one has the slightest
   idea who will win.

   The second lesson is that if America tips into recession, the sirens
   of populism will warble louder. A conventional economic conservative
   won this week, but only by echoing some populist refrains. Both Mr
   Romney and Mr McCain are free-traders, but both suggest on the stump
   that some types of trade are unfair. And nearly all candidates in both
   parties hint that switching to alternative fuels will cut off funds
   for Islamic terrorism, by reducing the price of oil. This is bunk.
   Only an imperceptible portion of petrodollars bankroll terrorism,
   which is anyway quite cheap. Al-Qaeda coped just fine when oil was $10
   a barrel.

   The third lesson is that although political junkies have been obsessed
   with the campaign for more than a year, many Americans have barely
   begun to think about it. Turnout in Michigan was low. Standing behind
   floor-to-ceiling bulletproof glass, the manager of a liquor store in
   downtown Detroit said he did not realise there was an election going
   on. "You're from a newspaper?" he asked. "You want to sell it in my
   store?"




   Can the president achieve anything before he leaves the White House? 


   FEW presidents have a pleasant time of it in their last year in
   office. Their chickens come home to roost. Their political capital
   dries up. Their advisers start worrying where their next pay cheque
   will come from. The entire country is fixated on the question of who
   will replace them.

   Woodrow Wilson was humiliated by America's failure to join the League
   of Nations and then incapacitated by a stroke. Dwight Eisenhower was
   haunted by Sputnik and his multiplying medical problems. Ronald Reagan
   and Bill Clinton had to deal with the fallout from Iran-Contra and
   Monica Lewinsky respectively.

   George Bush is likely to have a better year than Wilson (he is
   remarkably fit for a 61-year-old), but a worse one than most other
   presidents. Yet 2007 was a surprisingly good year after the debacles
   of 2006. The "surge" in Iraq proved fairly successful--and vindicated
   Mr Bush's decision to back his own judgment against the collective
   wisdom of the Iraq Study Group. The White House also played a
   successful defensive game against the Democratic-controlled Congress,
   outmanoeuvring it on everything from Iraq funding to the federal
   budget to energy bills to wire-tapping. Mr Bush blocked the expansion
   of a children's health insurance programme of which he disapproved. He
   is now talking about ending his presidency "in a sprint".

   This is unlikely. Mr Bush has little going for him in 2008. Only one
   in three Americans thinks that he is doing a good job. Almost all of
   his closest political advisers have decamped. Congress is determined
   to get its revenge and block anything that he sends it. And in reality
   he has much less than a year to play with. Congress leaves for its
   summer break in August (thereafter it will do little but pass
   appropriations bills). If the Republican Party chooses a champion in
   the next couple of months, he will to some extent cede the leadership
   of his party; if it fails to choose a champion, as many people are now
   speculating, the country will be agog at the prospect of a party
   convention at which the nomination is still up for grabs. Mr Bush's
   last chance to command the national spotlight may come as soon as the
   state-of-the-union address on January 28th.

   And, with his power ebbing, he faces a mountain of problems at home
   and abroad. The economy is softening. A wave of foreclosures is
   damping consumer spending and spreading anger. The fires of populism
   are burning ever more brightly. There are widespread calls for a
   stimulus package to revive the economy.

   More than most presidents, Mr Bush is also a hostage to foreign events
   over which he has little control. The current implosion in Pakistan is
   just one more reminder of the instability of the greater Middle East.
   If the surge continues to be successful, Mr Bush will have some reason
   for self-congratulation; if it falters and fails, he will leave office
   a broken man.

   Mr Bush has no choice but to pursue a modest domestic agenda. The man
   who once mocked his predecessor for playing "small ball" is doing just
   that. The White House talks about focusing on "kitchen table" issues
   such as tweaking the health-care system. Mr Bush even recently
   travelled to Chesapeake Bay to announce federal protection for two
   species of fish, the striped bass and the red drum.

   But there are nevertheless a couple of matters that qualify as a bit
   more than "small ball". Mr Bush will do his best to defend the two
   most important domestic achievements of his first term--the No Child
   Left Behind Act (which aims to raise standards in schools and which
   needs to be reauthorised) and his tax cuts (which are due to expire in
   2010). He will argue that extending the tax cuts is the best way to
   revive a slowing economy. He will also dare the Democrats to resist
   his "stimulus package" and risk being blamed by voters for a
   recession.

   Mr Bush is also determined to push through what is left of his trade
   agenda, including pacts with Colombia and South Korea. But much of his
   energy will be spent trying to block China-bashing legislation in
   Congress. This year is likely to see rising anxiety about the economic
   and military threat from China, as the publicity surrounding the
   summer Olympics in Beijing confronts Americans with yet more evidence
   of China's rise.

   Mr Bush's last year will be dominated by foreign policy. This is
   partly inevitable--he is fighting wars in Iraq and Afghanistan as well
   as a more general "war on terror". But it is also a matter of choice.
   Most presidents decide to escape from their domestic bonds in their
   final year--particularly if they face a hostile Congress and an
   unforgiving press corps--and Mr Bush is no exception.

   Mr Bush will fly to Israel in the next few days (his first visit there
   as president) in order to build on the momentum of November's
   Annapolis summit. He will also visit other places in the region,
   including the West Bank, Saudi Arabia and Egypt. A month later he will
   travel to Africa. Mr Bush also has several global summits on his
   agenda--ranging from a NATO meeting in Romania in April to an
   Asia-Pacific economic summit in Peru--as well as a visit to the
   Beijing Olympics in the summer. The White House explains the
   president's new-found Wanderlust by saying that "We want to be well
   perceived in the world".

   Reagan and Mr Clinton both offset their domestic troubles with big
   foreign initiatives at the fag end of their presidencies--Reagan by
   negotiating with Mikhail Gorbachev and Mr Clinton by throwing himself
   into trying to bring peace to Ireland and the Middle East. Mr Bush is
   unlikely to be so successful. He is widely unpopular in the Arab
   world, and the Palestinians are in no fit state to negotiate. As for
   the White House's wish to be "well perceived in the world", the less
   said the better.

   But his trip to Africa might prove surprisingly successful--and might
   highlight one of his unsung achievements. The Bush administration has
   allocated $15 billion to fighting HIV and AIDS in Africa and $1.2
   billion to prevent the spread of malaria. Partly because of this
   Africa is one of the few parts of the world where America's reputation
   has remained high during the Bush years.

   Africa will be the highlight of an otherwise dismal year. Mr Bush
   always wanted to be a "transformational" president. Most of his last
   year will be spent on the back foot--defending his tax cuts and
   dealing with the consequences of his "transformation" of Iraq. The
   rest will be small ball.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   John Edwards trails in third place. But his policy ideas are shaping
   the Democratic presidential race 

   HE STRIDES into an Iowa primary school where more than a hundred
   people have skipped their lunch to hear him, wearing jeans and
   flashing a smile that could sell toothpaste. He begins, as always, by
   mentioning his wife, who was diagnosed with incurable cancer in March.
   "She's doing great." But within seconds, John Edwards dives into the
   details of his health-care scheme. Then on to questions. The subjects
   range from high medical costs to the influence of Iran. "Here's what I
   think," he answers, before launching into a detailed plan to fix the
   problem.

   Mr Edwards is a man of big plans. No other presidential candidate, of
   either party, can match the sheer quantity, let alone the ambition, of
   his policy ideas. He has grand, progressive, goals--to end the war in
   Iraq (obviously), provide universal health care, address global
   warming, eliminate poverty in America within 30 years--and detailed
   blueprints of how to do it all.

   All this is a big change from 2004, when he first ran, unsuccessfully,
   for the Democratic nomination and then (equally unsuccessfully) as
   John Kerry's vice-presidential running-mate. Those campaigns were
   built around his youthful charm, made-for-politics biography (the son
   of a mill-worker in North Carolina; the first member of his family to
   go to college) and a rousing stump speech about "two Americas", one
   for the rich and one for the rest.

   His life-story loomed large because the dashing former trial lawyer
   was short of both substance and political experience. He was a
   one-term senator with a silver tongue and populist touch but an
   unremarkable legislative record. (He voted against two of George
   Bush's three tax cuts but for the war in Iraq.)

   Four years on, his experience of government is still thin. Having left
   the Senate in 2004 he has spent less time making laws (six years) than
   Barack Obama, who was a state senator for eight years and has been a
   senator in Washington for two and a half. But Mr Edwards is no longer
   a policy neophyte. Instead, he has positioned himself as the voice of
   his party's left wing. He renounced his support for the Iraq war in
   2005 (Mr Obama never supported it, however) and has been a powerful
   critic since. He has steeped himself in progressive causes,
   particularly the battle against poverty, founding a centre at the
   University of North Carolina to study ways to combat deprivation. And
   he has assiduously built ties with the unions.

   The transformation on Iraq is the most dramatic. Mr Edwards wants
   American soldiers out fast (an immediate reduction of 40,000-50,000,
   followed by an "orderly and complete" withdrawal of combat forces
   within a year). He excoriates Congress and his Democratic rivals for
   failing to force the president's hand by denying funding for the war.
   "Congress has a responsibility to force George Bush to end this war,"
   he intones in every speech. No serious Democratic candidate is more
   searing in his condemnation of America's present course. (The war on
   terror is a "bumper-sticker, not a plan", he mocks.)

   But far from turning inward to concentrate on domestic problems, he
   wants to "re-engage the world with the full weight of [America's]
   moral leadership". That demands change at home, notably on global
   warming, but also commitments abroad. Enough troops should stay near
   Iraq to "prevent a genocide, deter a regional spillover of the civil
   war, and prevent an al-Qaeda safe haven". He wants a big increase in
   foreign aid and a "Marshall Corps" of 10,000 bankers, political
   scientists and other experts to help failing states. There is a
   dissonance here. How can Mr Edwards pull out of Iraq while also
   forestalling the re-emergence of al-Qaeda? But for all his efforts to
   woo the anti-war wing, he is free of the isolationist flavour of most
   populist politicians.

   Champion of the poor

   On economics, too, the Edwards brand of populism is hard to
   pigeonhole. With roots in the textile mills and strong links to the
   unions, he is regarded as the most protectionist of the Democratic
   front-runners--though the margins are narrowing fast as Hillary
   Clinton stages a retreat from her husband's embrace of free trade.

   He offers plenty of standard populist cant: lots of talk about
   "fairness"; rants against oil firms for price gouging and drug
   companies for rocketing health costs; and--this year's favourite
   villain--anger at mortgage lenders for ripping off poor home-owners.
   (He calls it the "wild west of the credit industry, where...abusive
   and predatory lenders are robbing families blind.") A recent speech
   decried an economy that rewarded "wealth not work", a tax system that
   favoured the rich and a government that served only special interests.
   Yet for all that Mr Edwards is less a redistributionist firebrand than
   a big-government do-gooder. He is intent on helping the poor more than
   soaking the rich; his inspiration is Robert Kennedy, not Huey Long.

   The Edwards campaign openly evokes RFK's 1968 presidential bid, which
   combined vocal opposition to an unpopular war with a telegenic focus
   on alleviating poverty. Mr Edwards launched his candidacy outside a
   wrecked house in New Orleans's ninth ward. This week he spent three
   days on an anti-poverty tour, one that finished, not uncoincidentally,
   in Prestonburg, Kentucky, where Kennedy ended his own poverty tour 40
   years ago.

   Look beyond the unsubtle imagery, however, and Mr Edwards's
   anti-poverty plan is an intriguing mix. His goals are bold--to cut
   America's poverty rate of 12.6% by a third within a decade--but the
   means are mainstream. His policy arsenal includes expanding the Earned
   Income Tax Credit, a kind of negative income tax that tops up the
   earnings of poorer Americans; giving poor people "work bonds" to boost
   their saving; and providing 1m housing vouchers to help poor families
   move to better neighbourhoods. Policy wonks argue about whether these
   ideas, particularly housing vouchers, will work, but they could all
   have come from a centrist Democratic think-tank.

   The combination of bold goals and mainstream means is evident in two
   other Edwards plans: health care and energy reform. And it is why his
   campaign, regardless of its electoral fortunes, is shaping the
   Democratic race. Unable to dismiss his proposals as crazy radicalism,
   the other candidates have to be both bolder and more detailed than
   they would like.

   Consider health. Mr Edwards released his ideas for universal insurance
   in February, almost two years before election day. He steered clear of
   the approach favoured by the party's left--a single-payer system, like
   Canada's or Britain's. Instead his plan has ingredients that were
   introduced in Massachusetts by Mitt Romney, now a Republican
   presidential candidate: an overhaul of insurance markets, subsidies to
   help poorer people pay their premiums, taxes on firms that do not
   provide health-care coverage for their workers, and a requirement that
   everyone should buy health insurance.

   His proposal does nod to the left: a government health scheme, akin to
   Medicare, would compete with private insurers, potentially opening the
   door to a single-payer system if everyone chose to join the public
   scheme. But it does not seem threateningly radical. As a result, it
   has become the standard against which other Democratic candidates are
   judged. Mr Obama, who recently released a paler version of the Edwards
   ideas, was criticised for not requiring people to buy health
   insurance.

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                                   How it ended last time

   On global warming, too, the Edwards campaign has set the pace. He
   wants to reduce America's greenhouse-gas emissions by 80% before 2050
   with a cap-and-trade system of carbon permits. He also touts reforms
   of the electricity grid, improvements in energy efficiency and vast
   investment in renewable energy. Those targets match the toughest bill
   now in Congress. Mrs Clinton and Mr Obama signed on to this bill soon
   after the Edwards energy plan was released.

   These ideas do not come cheap. Universal health care will cost some
   $90 billion-$120 billion a year; the poverty plan $15 billion-$20
   billion; the renewable energy fund another $13 billion (though the
   auction of carbon permits and elimination of subsidies for oil firms
   should cover some of that). Add in a rag-bag of other ideas and you
   easily reach some $150 billion of new spending a year, well over 1% of
   GDP. That, however, is about what the Iraq war is currently consuming.

   Plainly, the new spending will require higher taxes. Mr Edwards has
   been more willing than his competitors to admit that he will go beyond
   the Democrat commonplace of rolling back Mr Bush's tax cuts for those
   making over $200,000. He has hinted at raising the tax rate on capital
   gains, arguing that it is "not right" for income from wealth and work
   to be treated differently. Recently he became the first presidential
   candidate to endorse Democratic lawmakers' efforts to end the
   preferential taxation of "carried interest", a tax loophole for
   private-equity firms and hedge funds.

   The three Hs

   Raising taxes on hedge funds fits the image Mr Edwards is trying for.
   But it also points to his biggest weaknesses, known as the "three Hs".
   The working-class hero worked for a hedge fund, earning $479,000 as a
   consultant for Fortress Investment Group last year; he is building a
   28,000ft (2,600 square metre) house; and he charged two $400 haircuts
   to his campaign.

   An expensively coiffed mansion-builder is all too easy to ridicule as
   a champion of the poor. And the haircut gaffe echoes the reputation
   for preferring style to substance that dogged Mr Edwards in 2004.
   (Judging by a gaggle of schoolteachers in Iowa, the pretty-boy problem
   has not gone away. "Can I lift up his coat?" giggled one as she waited
   for a photograph.)

   By and large, though, Iowa Democrats are buying Mr Edwards's brand of
   populism. He has campaigned hard there, visiting the state more than
   20 times in the past two years. His strategy depends on doing well in
   the first-off Iowa caucuses, and at present he leads the pack in polls
   there, though Mrs Clinton is closing in fast. Nationally, Mr Edwards
   trails far behind Mrs Clinton and Mr Obama, both in polls and the race
   for cash. He raised only $9m between April and June, compared with Mr
   Obama's $32.5m.

   Surprisingly, perhaps, Mr Edwards's brand of populism seems to appeal
   to Republicans. When pitted against Republican candidates in polls, he
   scores better than the other Democratic front-runners. But it is the
   primaries that matter, and there Mr Edwards must hope for one of the
   others to stumble. If Obamamania fades, or the Clinton machine stalls,
   an Edwards nomination is just possible. But even if the man himself
   does not make it, the Democrats' presidential platform will be shaped
   by Mr Edwards's plans.


                                                                       AP

                                     AP

   Illegal immigration is one of the hottest issues of the election
   season 


   NO SUBJECT has discombobulated this year's presidential debates as
   much as immigration. Hillary Clinton's recent fall from grace dates
   from her refusal to give a straight answer to a question about whether
   she supports allowing illegal immigrants to have driving licences. On
   the Republican side, some of the testiest exchanges of the political
   season have been between Mitt Romney and Rudy Giuliani over illegal
   immigrants.

   Mr Romney accuses Mr Giuliani of running a "sanctuary city" when he
   was mayor of New York. Mr Giuliani accuses Mr Romney of living in a
   "sanctuary mansion" because the firm that he employs to do his
   gardening employs illegals (Mr Romney retorted that he could not be
   expected to verify the immigration status of everyone with a "funny
   accent" and later sacked the company). All very childish. But all very
   telling too.

   The rise of illegal immigration as an election issue is one of the
   most remarkable changes in American politics in recent decades. George
   Bush and Al Gore hardly discussed the subject--they both agreed that
   America needed to do a better job of providing illegal immigrants with
   a path to citizenship. The same was true of Mr Bush and John Kerry.

   The subject has nevertheless become a red-hot issue, dangerous to
   anyone who touches it. There are two obvious reasons for this. One is
   numbers: there are now an estimated 12m illegal immigrants living in
   the United States, and at least another half-million enter the country
   each year. America's growing Hispanic population is also spreading
   across the country--even reaching the all-important early-voting
   states of Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina. The other reason is
   the rise of anxiety about globalisation. A recent Pew Research Centre
   report shows that America has seen the biggest rise in worries about
   trade of any rich country since 2002. This is producing a populist
   backlash against both immigration and "broken borders".

   Twist and shout

   The mainstream Republican candidates are all on record as supporting
   fair-minded "comprehensive" immigration reform. John McCain sponsored
   a reform bill together with his Democratic colleague, Ted Kennedy. Mr
   Romney mocked the idea that you could deport 12m people. As mayor of
   New York, Mr Giuliani denounced federal immigration laws as harsh and
   unfair. As governor of Arkansas, Mike Huckabee supported allowing the
   children of illegal immigrants to claim cheap in-state tuition. As a
   senator for Tennessee, Fred Thompson supported an increase in the
   number of visas available for agricultural workers.

   The most outspoken "restrictionist" on the platform is Tom Tancredo,
   an obscure Republican congressman from Colorado. Mr Tancredo has made
   immigration reform--which to him means sending the 12m back home--the
   centrepiece of his campaign. He has produced advertisements linking
   illegal immigrants to terrorism and gang violence.

   Flaky stuff. But Mr Tancredo speaks for a sizeable portion of the
   Republican base. He helped to replace Mr McCain's immigration-reform
   bill with a harsher measure that authorised the building of a 700-mile
   (1,100km) fence along the Mexican border. And he--or at least
   Tancredoism--is having a remarkable influence on the Republican
   debate.

   The most shameless flip-flopper on immigration is Mr Romney. He now
   echoes Mr Tancredo's talk of "amnesty" and criticises his
   rivals--particularly Messrs Giuliani and Huckabee--for being soft on
   immigration. But others have followed in his direction. Mr Giuliani
   emphasises border security. Mr Huckabee has produced a "secure America
   plan". Mr Thompson threatens to "punish employers" who hire illegals.
   Even Mr McCain has hardened his line on immigration, though he
   continues to warn his party against demonising immigrants. Mr Tancredo
   now accuses his rivals of trying to "out-Tancredo Tancredo".

   This represents a repudiation of Mr Bush's strategy of welcoming
   Latinos into the Republican tent by supporting immigration reform. It
   also carries risks for the Republicans in the 2008 election--and
   indeed in future elections. Latinos are the fastest growing electoral
   block in the country. The Republicans could end up losing five
   Latino-rich states that Mr Bush won in 2004: Florida, Arizona, New
   Mexico, Nevada and Colorado.

   The Democratic candidates have been much more consistent in their
   support for comprehensive immigration reform. Every senator on the
   platform supported Mr McCain's legislation, for example. But they are
   also aware that the subject is a bear trap. Only two mainstream
   candidates, Mr Obama and Bill Richardson, have come out in favour of
   allowing illegal immigrants to obtain driving licences (Mrs Clinton
   resolved her internal debate by deciding against the idea). The
   mainstream candidates have been careful to avoid calling illegals
   "undocumented workers", the formulation favoured by pro-immigrant
   pressure groups in their party.

   They are right to be nervous. Most Americans are ambivalent about
   illegal immigration--proud of America's history as an
   immigrant-friendly country but hostile to anything that sanctions
   breaking the law and worried about the economic impact of immigration.
   The latest [4]Economist/YouGov poll (see chart) reveals a striking
   degree of concern about the threat that immigration poses both to
   "traditional American values" and economic well-being. Illegal
   immigrants also place huge burdens on America's hospitals, schools and
   prisons (there are, for instance, around 20,000 of them in
   California's jails).

   Worries about globalisation are strong among two of the Democratic
   Party's core constituencies--blue-collar workers and blacks. Some
   working-class Americans must compete for jobs with people who are in
   the country illegally. In California, English-speakers are fleeing
   urban schools where more than 70% of the children are Hispanics,
   forking out for private schools or homes in the suburbs.

   The driving-licence question is particularly dangerous for Democrats.
   Only 22% of the voters in a recent Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg poll
   supported allowing illegal immigrants to get licences. Eliot Spitzer,
   the governor of New York, saw his popularity collapse when he endorsed
   the idea. He has now retreated.

   This adds up to a big potential difficulty for Mr Obama in the
   election. James Carville, one of the most astute Democratic
   operatives, gives warning that "the centrality of illegal immigration
   to the current discontent about the direction of the country may be
   taking us back again to a `welfare moment'"--referring to Bill
   Clinton's decision to break with his party's base in supporting
   welfare reform.

   The problem of illegal immigration will continue to haunt the
   presidential race. Rightly so: no country should have 12m people
   living illegally within its borders. But awkwardly so from the
   perspective of the candidates: the issue pulls Americans in all sorts
   of contradictory directions. No wonder most politicians keep trying to
   duck the question--and no wonder the voters will not let them.


   Not yet: the Obama spell is stronger than that 


   ONE certainty emerges from the confusion of Iowa and New Hampshire:
   Barack Obama is still the shiniest star in the political firmament.
   The citizens of Iowa and New Hampshire are not a particularly
   demonstrative bunch. In Iowa they pride themselves on their Midwestern
   common sense; New Hampshirites on their ornery independence. But Mr
   Obama has stirred them as they have seldom been stirred before.

   People turned up in their thousands to listen to his speeches. They
   lined up for hours. They filled his every venue to the rafters. They
   high-fived and chanted ("fired up, ready to go"). They thrilled to his
   rhetoric. Mouldering old political hacks declared that they had not
   seen anything like this since JFK.

   The magic worked well in Iowa. Mr Obama rode a wave of young voters
   and independents to a smashing victory. Then, in New Hampshire, it did
   not work quite so well. Mr Obama's loss to Hillary Clinton was all the
   more painful because almost everybody (including the Clintons
   themselves) expected him to win handsomely. However this setback,
   dramatic though it is, should not be allowed to obscure his
   achievements.

   Mr Obama is a first-term senator--a man who was so unknown eight years
   ago that he could not even get a floor pass to the 2000 Democratic
   convention--who has fought the formidable Clinton machine to a draw.
   What had looked for months like Hillary's coronation will now be a
   real fight for the crown.

   But he has done more than this: he has rewritten the terms of the 2008
   race. Mr Obama was the first person to put "change" at the heart of
   his campaign. Now everybody--Republican as well as Democrat--has leapt
   on to the change bandwagon. Mrs Clinton promises "smart change". John
   Edwards promises "real change". John McCain touts his record of
   changing Washington from within. In the twinned Republican and
   Democratic debates on January 5th the presidential candidates used the
   word "change" 120 times.

   His achievements are undoubted. But how lethal is the "reality check"
   of New Hampshire? Is the magic Obama train about to hit the buffers,
   or is the candidate tough enough to keep it steaming ahead through
   what now promises to be a long hard contest?

   Mr Obama has demonstrated a unique ability to invoke passion among his
   supporters. This is partly because at his best he may be the finest
   public speaker of his generation: a man who echoes John Kennedy and
   Martin Luther King but nevertheless speaks in a voice that is all his
   own. It is not just that he says it well: it is also what he says.

   Mr Obama has three great themes--change, reconciliation and hope.
   America is broken, he argues, ruled by lobbyists and hated around the
   world. The polls show that many Americans agree (see chart and [4]full
   poll details). The way to fix this is not by fighting the partisan
   political wars even harder but by creating a national movement for
   reform that embraces independents and disillusioned Republicans. The
   force that will bring about this change is hope: the very same force
   that has brought about all the great changes in American history, from
   the emancipation of the slaves to the civil-rights movement. Or so the
   devotees say.

   Mr Obama's supporters regard him as a transforming figure. He can,
   they claim, cure America's partisan divisions with the help of the
   fact that he is a newcomer to Washington who reaches out to
   independents and Republicans (Mr Obama himself says that he is running
   for the presidency now because he did not want to stay in Congress for
   so long that "all the hope was boiled out of him"). He can repair
   America's image in the world, they believe, because he is himself a
   global citizen who spent some of his childhood in Indonesia and is the
   son of an African father and grandson of a Muslim.

   Deeper than all this is the question of race. Mr Obama never dwells on
   racial reconciliation. When he mentions emancipation and civil rights,
   it is alongside women's and workers' rights. He does not need to speak
   about black-white reconciliation because he embodies it. The largely
   white crowds who have been flocking to him over the past few
   weeks--Iowa and New Hampshire are only about 2% black--see him as a
   way of making amends for America's racist past. The gangly man on the
   stage has the power to forgive past sins and unite a house that has
   been divided.

   But the promise of "transformation" that so excited the voters in Iowa
   was clearly not enough in New Hampshire. The Clintons threw everything
   that they could at the "hope" machine. Mrs Clinton demanded a "reality
   check". What, she asked, is the point of high hopes if you do not have
   the experience to deliver them? Bill Clinton talked about "fairy
   tales". Various critics argued that a great orator can still emit
   nothing but hot air. Probably the setback was inevitable: election
   campaigns cannot be conducted in terms of pure poetry for ever.

   An end to poetry

   Mr Obama now faces two big problems. The first is that his rhetoric is
   a waning asset. Everyone now knows that he is a wonderful speaker. But
   can he produce anything but golden words? He needs to show that he can
   excel at prose as well as poetry. It is striking how many people
   turned up to his meetings in New Hampshire and came away moved but not
   converted. They admired his talent but did not think that he addressed
   their problems.

   His second trouble is that important groups of Democratic voters are
   immune to Obamamania. His message goes down fine with the
   college-educated crowd: young and liberal professionals who want to
   hear a statement about what sort of country they live in. It goes down
   less well with blue-collar workers and older people who want somebody
   who can solve meat-and-potatoes problems. For them Mr Obama is too
   young and too inexperienced: a pretty talker rather than a problem
   solver.

   Democratic primaries have traditionally been unkind to inspirational
   liberals. The likes of Eugene McCarthy and Howard Dean were carried
   forward on a wave of hope for a while before they collapsed in
   confusion.

   Yet there are a few reasons for thinking that Mr Obama may prove a
   more enduring candidate. The vote in New Hampshire was too close to
   qualify as a rejection. Voters want a proper contest in which they can
   consider their options; they do not want a coronation either of Mrs
   Clinton or of Mr Obama. And Mr Obama is a more appealing, and better
   organised, character than those "inspirational" predecessors.

   The vote for the president is the most personal vote that Americans
   cast: a vote for a person rather than a party or ideology. Mr Obama's
   personal story speaks directly to America's sense of itself as a land
   of opportunity and upward mobility. His father abandoned him when he
   was two. He was partly brought up by his grandparents. He drifted for
   a while and experimented with drugs. But then he pulled himself
   together. He was the first black president of the Harvard Law Review.
   He wrote two best-selling books. He rejected black-identity politics
   for the richer theme of multiculturalism and racial reconciliation. He
   has risen to the summit of American politics by his mid-40s without
   the help of family connections.

   Mr Obama is also the ideal anti-Bush candidate. Americans tend to look
   for a president who is different from his immediate predecessor--they
   chose Ronald Reagan after Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton after George
   Bush senior--and Mr Obama is as different from George Bush as you can
   get. For a start, he is an outsider who didn't inherit power. Mrs
   Clinton, by contrast, is half of a political dynasty that has been at
   the heart of America's partisan wars for as long as many people can
   remember.

   Mr Obama is tough. He thrived in the world of Illinois politics, one
   that is dominated by entrenched political machines that pride
   themselves on their bare-knuckle tactics. His first bid for the House
   of Representatives collapsed in disaster but four years later he was
   running for the Senate. His chief political adviser, David Axelrod, is
   one of the best in the business.

   He came out against the "dumb" war in Iraq at a time when Mr Bush's
   approval ratings were sky-high and leading Democrats such as Mrs
   Clinton and John Kerry were voting for it. In the Senate he
   concentrated on building political capital for a presidential run
   rather than on accumulating a legislative record (which frankly looks
   a little thin). He had the audacity to go ahead even though the
   establishment was telling him to wait his turn.

   Perhaps the most striking thing that he has going for him is that the
   Republicans seem more frightened of his message of "hope" than of Mrs
   Clinton's message of "experience". They are well geared up for adding
   a few more points to Mrs Clinton's already lengthy list of political
   negatives. Mr Obama is an unknown quantity. His race makes him
   difficult for the Republicans to attack, and he is better than she is
   at wooing wavering Republicans. Despite New Hampshire, the battle
   between hope and experience has only just begun.


   The latest targets for insurers

   YOUNG people are hard to pin down. They graduate from school. They
   jump between employers, or in and out of employment. They leave their
   parental home for a shared flat, a friend's couch, or a house they can
   scarcely afford. They move to New York, San Francisco, Portland, or
   even Austin.

   And so they often wander away from the comforts of health-care
   insurance. According to the Census Bureau, almost 30% of Americans
   between the ages of 18 and 34 are uninsured. For people aged 45 to 64
   the number is just 14%.

   A healthy young person seldom requires medical attention. So forgoing
   insurance is an understandable decision. But some of those who roll
   the dice lose. A serious illness or accident can be financially
   ruinous, and lead to sub-standard care.

   Having more healthy young people in the insurance pool would benefit
   insurers, because they are less likely to make big claims. But efforts
   to attract them have thus far been feeble. Various companies offer low
   monthly premiums aimed at the young. But they typically have high
   deductibles--the amount the subscriber has to pay out of his own
   pocket before insurance kicks in. So young people tend to shy away
   from them.

   One company, however, is taking an interesting new approach. In
   September Precedent Insurance--a division of the American Community
   Mutual Insurance Company--brought out a line of Coverage on Demand
   plans. The plans are currently available only in Texas, which has a
   higher percentage of uninsured people than any other state. They offer
   low premiums, low deductibles, limited benefits, and a clever twist.
   If you exhaust your benefits but need more coverage, you can pay an
   additional "activation fee" and get more, even after you get ill or
   hurt. There are four levels of cover. To get to the fourth requires at
   least a cumulative $9,000 in activation fees. But it then provides the
   subscriber with up to $5m in coverage.

   The activation fees for the higher levels are steep, but a lot better
   than bankruptcy. According to Mike Grandstaff, the company's chief
   executive officer, they only make sense if you are, in fact, in
   reasonably good health. If you are likely to need more than the first
   level of coverage, the plan is not really economical.

   Even people who plan on staying well may prefer more comprehensive
   health-care insurance. The Precedent plans do not cover, for example,
   costs associated with a normal pregnancy. This is to discourage women
   who plan on becoming pregnant shortly after signing up. But it is, of
   course, hard luck on a woman with an unplanned pregnancy. Perhaps she
   could hope that the father works for the government and is in a
   marrying mood.

   Young people have it tough. It remains easier for politicians to rally
   around the cuddly or wrinkly. This was apparent this week, as
   Democrats denounced a "cruel" George Bush for vetoing, on October 3rd,
   the reauthorisation and expansion of the State Children's Health
   Insurance Programme (SCHIP). This federal programme provides insurance
   for 6.9m children from low-income families by providing blocks of
   money to the states, which disburse it. SCHIP began in 1997 and
   expired on September 30th, although Congress has already extended it
   for six weeks while the political wrangling continues.

   A bipartisan majority in the House and Senate passed a plan that calls
   for $35 billion in additional spending on SCHIP over the next five
   years, only to see it vetoed as expected. The plan would have upped
   the number of children covered to 10m. Mr Bush opposed the scheme
   mainly on cost grounds (though Democrats say this rings false, given
   how much he is wasting on the Iraq war) and accused him of wantonly
   denying children health-care insurance. This week they plainly won the
   political advantage. But curing America's health-care system will take
   more than political point-scoring and limited fixes. It will require a
   degree of political co-operation that is not now available.


   Southern states are eager to boost trade with Cuba

   THE docks in Mobile, Alabama's only seaport, are crammed with lumber,
   steel coils, frozen chickens, coal and much else. But few of these
   products are bound for Cuba, just 550 nautical miles (1,000km) away.
   The state port authority's director, James Lyons, hopes this will
   change. "We're trading with Vietnam, we're trading with China. These
   are both communist states," he says. "It's silly to have tense
   relations with a neighbour that close."

   Mr Lyons is hardly the only Southerner who would be glad to see the
   end of America's 45-year embargo on trade with Cuba. Trade delegations
   from Alabama, Mississippi and other Gulf states have been descending
   on Cuba in recent years, hoping for a slice of a potentially lucrative
   market. Currently only agricultural products and medicines may be
   exported from America (with no Cuban imports permitted). Before 2000,
   when the embargo was loosened, nothing was allowed.

   In 2005 Alabaman companies did roughly $140m in trade with Cuba,
   according to Ron Sparks, the state's agricultural commissioner, who is
   aggressively pursuing Cuban business. "We've sold cotton, we've sold
   cookies, crackers, fruit juice, mayonnaise, mustard, salad dressing--a
   lot of processed foods," says Mr Sparks. Over half of all chickens
   exported from America to Cuba come from Alabama, along with almost all
   the (wooden) telephone poles. The owner of one Alabaman pole-making
   business, which first shipped utility poles to Cuba after Hurricane
   Charley in 2004, says that competition is fierce for the Cuban
   business, especially since a large-scale electrification project in
   Cuba has boosted demand. Helpfully, Alabama has no powerful
   pro-embargo lobby of Cuban exiles like the one in Florida.

   Volume would be higher still if the embargo were lifted. In Mobile,
   the port's trade with Cuba amounts to only a few thousand tons a
   year--a fraction of its 50m ton (45m tonne) annual average. Just one
   or two ships a week leave for Cuba, as against six or seven in the
   pre-Castro days. "There's all manner of things that could be
   exported," says Mr Lyons--roofing materials, machinery, cars, even
   paint, none of which is currently allowed. Exports from America, it is
   reckoned, could easily treble from the current $350m or so a year.

   More agricultural goods could also be shipped, but "there are a lot of
   people who just don't want to fool with all the paperwork," says Mr
   Lyons. Many extra hassles complicate trade with Cuba. Americans cannot
   travel there freely, so many businessmen attach themselves to state
   officials as part of a delegation (and still must get permits from
   Washington). Payment is also an issue. Americans cannot accept money
   from Cubans directly, so setting up a third-party payment procedure is
   necessary. The transaction must be in cash (which some Americans
   regard as a plus). Ships cannot head directly from Cuba to the United
   States, though sometimes extra paperwork can circumvent this.

   Even if the embargo were to be lifted tomorrow, Mr Lyons cautions that
   trade would not boom immediately. "They don't have the currency to buy
   what they need," he says. But trade works both ways--so how about some
   Cuban cigars and rum for America?


   Silent but deadly
   "I'm sorry, I don't talk to the press and that applies to you,
   unfortunately."

   Chelsea Clinton refuses to be interviewed by any journalists, even a
   nine-year-old reporter for Scholastic News. Associated Press, December
   31st 

   Having your cake and eating it
   "I pulled the ad. I do not want it to be run at all."

   Mike Huckabee, deciding not to run a negative ad against Mitt Romney.
   He then showed it to the media, and it has since appeared on news
   reports and the internet.

   [3]Washingtonpost.com, December 31st 

   Hedging your bets
   "I think I'm going to win. I'm not going to forecast that necessarily.
   But I think I'm going to win, and that would be enormously powerful
   for my campaign."

   Mitt Romney on his chances in Iowa. [4]CNN.com, December 31st 

   All I want
   "Take me on a vacation."

   Cindy McCain suggesting a New Year's resolution for her husband.
   CNN.com, December 31st 

   Going postal
   "John doesn't have a record in the Senate. John's only passed four
   bills. They're all about post offices. I mean, literally."

   Joe Biden on John Edwards's senatorial career. Washingtonpost.com,
   December 31st 

   Officially unofficial
   "He will not have a formal official role. But just as presidents rely
   on wives, husbands, fathers, friends of long years, he will be my
   close confidant and adviser, as I was with him."

   Hillary Clinton on her husband's possible future role. ABC News,
   December 30th 

   Geography 101
   "In light of what is happening in Pakistan it ought to give us pause
   as to why are so many illegals coming across these borders."

   Mike Huckabee on immigration. Associated Press, December 28th 

   Delicate flower
   "It was a severe headache, yeah, and everything has turned out fine.
   All the tests turned out 100%. As you can see, I'm very healthy."

   Rudy Giuliani was hospitalised in St Louis. Los Angeles Times,
   December 23rd 

   Animal lover
   "Well...these three birds all said they would not vote for me on
   caucus day. You see what happened?"

   Mike Huckabee went pheasant hunting in Iowa, shooting three birds.
   Washingtonpost.com, December 26th


   Local action against illegal immigration

   IN SEPTEMBER 2006 the city of Irving, close to Dallas, decided that it
   wanted to help fight illegal immigration. So it signed up for the
   Criminal Alien Programme (CAP). The programme, run by the Immigration
   and Customs agency, asks local law officials to give them a call if
   they suspect someone they have arrested may be an illegal immigrant.

   Irving is not the only city to have joined, but it is probably the
   most enthusiastic. Since CAP's inception, some 1,700 people from
   Irving, a city of officially about 200,000 souls, have been handed
   over for deportation. Opposition to CAP has suffered some
   public-relations setbacks. In November an activist, Carlos
   Quintanilla, was arrested after a policeman spotted him giving a
   television interview on East Irving Boulevard. He had seven
   outstanding warrants. But such moments aside, the programme's
   opponents are right to be concerned about it. They argue that it
   encourages racial profiling, is too punitive and harms families. No
   reliable measure exists of how many people have left the city out of
   fear or frustration, but the local school district says it has lost
   hundreds of students this year.

   Objecting from the other side are people who say that Irving policemen
   should not be asked to shoulder a federal task. In November the
   federal government asked north Texas officials to stop detaining
   people over traffic violations and certain misdemeanours, such as
   bouncing a cheque. There were too many referrals, they said, and not
   enough resources to look at them all.

   So the programme has its problems. And Irving is just one of several
   places in the Dallas-Fort Worth area to struggle with its response to
   illegal immigration. City commissioners in Collin County recently
   announced that non-profit clinics will not receive county money if
   they treat illegal immigrants. In May the suburb of Farmers Branch
   approved an ordinance that would require landlords to verify the legal
   status of prospective tenants. Landlords are contesting the ban,
   saying that it puts an undue burden on them, and lawsuits have
   prevented it from taking effect.

   Understandably, people who are frustrated by federal inaction on
   immigration may turn to local initiatives. But no one benefits when
   these are poorly conceived and arbitrarily applied.


   The push for universal health care at last hits Congress

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

   "WE'RE right at the cusp of an ideological truce on health care,"
   declares a beaming Ron Wyden. The Democratic senator has reason to be
   pleased. A version of his Healthy Americans Act, an ambitious
   health-reform bill aimed at universal coverage that he has already
   introduced into the Senate, was due to go to the House this week. At
   that point, his bill will become the first bipartisan, bicameral
   congressional effort in over a decade to tackle the issue of extending
   health care to the country's growing legion of uninsured.

   Hillary Clinton's effort was the previous one: a disastrous attempt to
   promote a government-run health scheme at the start of her husband's
   first administration. That plan backfired, in part because the vast
   majority of Americans in 1993 had decent health-insurance plans
   through their employers and feared ending up worse off.

   Today, though, Americans are increasingly unhappy with the health
   system. Congressman Brian Baird, a co-sponsor of the House version of
   the universal-care bill, argues that many millions have lost their
   employer-provided insurance since the failure of the Clinton plan and
   even more fear they might. Such widespread insecurity has breathed new
   life into reform.

   Both versions of the bill require individuals to buy their insurance,
   and include insurance-market reform and subsidies to make sure that
   all Americans can do so. They also end the current tax break for
   health insurance provided by employers, which should break the link
   between insurance and employment by making coverage portable.

   That appeals to businesses, which, like individuals, are feeling
   increasingly insecure as the cost of employee health benefits
   continues to soar well above the rate of inflation. Wal-Mart,
   America's biggest retailer, has been loudly pushing for universal
   coverage, and the current bipartisan efforts in Congress have won
   praise from General Mills, a big cereal manufacturer, Aetna, an
   insurance giant, and other firms.

   The best reason to think that top-down reform might work comes,
   ironically, from bottom-up efforts. A number of states are now
   experimenting with health reform. Massachusetts already has a plan up
   and running that involves an individual requirement to buy coverage,
   subsidies for the poorest and a state-supervised insurance exchange.
   California's legislature is even now haggling with Governor Arnold
   Schwarzenegger over his plan for coverage, which adds an employer tax
   on top of the Massachusetts model (the Golden State has far more
   uninsured who need subsidies). This battle is expected to come to a
   head in September.

   With such activity at state level, some conservatives think Congress
   should do nothing. Mr Wyden strongly disagrees. He observes that even
   the most ingenious state cannot fix several of the central problems,
   including the Medicare scheme for the elderly and the federal tax
   break for employer-provided health insurance, which has encouraged
   profligacy.

   Federal efforts still face a formidable obstacle: the partisan
   slanging of the presidential election cycle. Congress and the White
   House even traded barbs this week over the State Children's Health
   Insurance Programme (SCHIP), a popular scheme that subsidises coverage
   for children. The Senate Finance Committee floated a plan to renew and
   expand SCHIP using money raised from new tobacco taxes. It had
   bipartisan support, yet the White House, playing to right-wing fears
   of creeping government expansion, threatened this week to veto the
   effort.

   Mr Wyden thinks this is just posturing. Soon, he believes, Congress
   will reach a compromise on the popular SCHIP programme, and then move
   on to real health reform. Perhaps he is right, for already in this
   campaign health care is the top domestic policy issue. John Edwards
   has proposed his universal-coverage plan, and Mitt Romney, a
   Republican ex-governor of Massachusetts, will make much of that
   state's health reforms if he wins his party's nomination.
   Perhaps--though don't hold your breath--the moment has indeed come for
   an ideological truce.


   But whose fault is that? 

   THE Democrats took control of Congress nearly a year ago with schemes
   to pump cash into domestic programmes, from low-income housing to
   cancer research. It hasn't quite gone according to plan. George Bush
   has waved his veto pen at the Democrats' recent budget proposals,
   accepting only a fat defence-spending bill. The result has been a
   stalemate, with the Democrats struggling to come up with a budget that
   will get past the president's desk, with only a week left before the
   Christmas recess in which to finish the job.

   Indeed, frustrated ambition has marked the Democrats' majority reign
   so far. In the summer they failed to make Mr Bush accept a deadline
   for withdrawing troops from Iraq. In October the president stopped
   them expanding a popular children's health-care programme. The Senate
   has just voted to waive its "pay-as-you-go" rule, which requires tax
   cuts to be offset by other revenue, thanks to filibustering by the
   Republican contingent. The federal budget is months overdue, and it
   appears that the Democrats will have to give in to many of Mr Bush's
   spending demands, even at the expense of the domestic programmes they
   wanted to augment. Will voters punish the Democrats at the 2008
   election for Congress's disappointing year, or will they whack the
   Republicans for their obstructionism?

   As far as the budget goes, the Republican minority clearly hopes the
   blame will rebound on the Democrats. Mr Bush has suddenly and
   conveniently adopted the language of fiscal restraint. He has argued
   that the Democrats' budget plan, which called for a small increase in
   domestic spending, was excessive and wasteful. He has doggedly stuck
   to his own budget outline, which calls for $23 billion less domestic
   expenditure than Congress's first plan, even as the Democrats have
   offered to meet him somewhere in between. (The Democrats' first
   proposed discretionary budget came to $956 billion, next to which the
   $23 billion that is causing the problem looks pretty small.)
   Meanwhile, the president's defence request is a 10% increase on last
   year's at $481 billion--and that excludes $196 billion for the
   campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan.

   Republicans also may be holding the budget hostage in order to force
   the majority to authorise unfettered Iraq funding, which would rile
   the Democratic base. Still, the president has shown that he can
   extract his Iraq money from the Democratic Congress regardless by
   exploiting his veto and Democrats' unwillingness to block all funding
   while American soldiers are in the field. The Republicans can probably
   secure their war money without giving much on domestic spending.

   Now that Mr Bush has discovered the power of the veto pen, he sees
   little incentive to keep it in the inkwell. Those who still support
   him will only be heartened by his defiance, and legislative gridlock
   makes the Democrats seem incompetent. The Democrats have not helped
   themselves with their time-wasting on Iraq. But Mr Bush's tactics may
   hurt Republicans in tight races, particularly if the cuts to social
   services he envisions hit Americans as hard as some predict.

   The Democrats, meanwhile, complain that their slim majority (51-49) in
   the Senate has prevented them from passing ambitious legislation.
   Senate procedures, with all their talk of cloture and filibusters, are
   arcane; but if the Democrats can claim that the Republicans pressed
   for cuts to health care for children or winter heating assistance for
   the elderly, the message might resonate. Americans still tend to trust
   Democrats more than Republicans on domestic policy; with elections
   coming, now may not be the time for Republicans to rediscover their
   hard edges.


   Attention shifts to two states that are unused to it

   THE West usually comes late to the primary season, by which point the
   excitement is over. This year it is crashing the party. Of the
   region's 11 states, seven will select their Republican and Democratic
   candidates by February 5th. This week prospective nominees turned
   their attention to two states that are unaccustomed to it. One is
   Nevada, which will hold caucuses on January 19th. The other is
   California, the greatest prize in the race. Although polling booths in
   California do not open until February 5th, half of the votes there are
   expected to be sent in early by post. The first ballots landed on
   doormats this week.

   In 2004 fewer than 10,000 people turned up to the Democratic caucuses
   in Nevada. The American media have largely overlooked the state, as
   have the Republicans. They are more focused on South Carolina, which
   will pick a Republican candidate on the same day. But the Democrats
   see Nevada as a gateway to the West and a crucial source of momentum.
   Barack Obama dropped two references to the state into his concession
   speech in New Hampshire.

   Until recently Nevada seemed to be in the bag for Hillary Clinton, who
   led in polls and had picked up endorsements from prominent Democrats.
   But this week Nevada's two most powerful unions threw their weight
   behind Mr Obama. The Culinary Workers Union has some 60,000 members,
   most of whom work in casinos, where, handily, some of the caucuses
   will be held. The Service Employees International Union is smaller but
   can draw organisers from neighbouring California. Since turnout is
   expected to be fairly low, the outcome of the caucuses is likely to
   turn on a contest between two get-out-the-vote operations--the unions'
   versus the Democratic establishment's.

   In Iowa and New Hampshire Mr Obama did especially well among
   independent voters, well-off urbanites and the young. The first group
   is much prized game in the West. Democratic officials in California
   and Nevada have made it easy for independents to vote in their
   contests. The Republicans have not, so independents are forced into
   the Democratic race.

   Mr Obama will need their support, because he faces a big disadvantage.
   California and Nevada are heavily Hispanic--in California there are as
   many Latinos aged 18 to 29 as whites and blacks put together. Not all
   can vote, and relatively few of those who can, will. But those who do
   are likely to support Mrs Clinton. California's leading Latino
   politicians have rallied to her, and polls put her lead among Hispanic
   voters somewhere between strong and overwhelming. Bill Richardson
   dropped out of the race on January 9th, so now there is no actual
   Hispanic to vote for.

   Some of this has to do with the fact that many Latinos are
   working-class and thus attracted to Mrs Clinton's talk of economic
   problem-solving. But Mr Obama's race matters too. California's Latinos
   are frequently pitted against blacks in the zero-sum game of urban
   politics, which generates broader resentments.

   Postal voters are Mrs Clinton's other strength. They are older than
   average, and she has done well among the old so far. They are
   enthusiastic: more than three-quarters returned their ballots in the
   2006 mid-term elections. Like Rudy Giuliani, the Republican candidate
   with the strongest California operation, she will target them
   relentlessly. Both hope to win the big race before it has begun.




   The Republican Party is in a mess. The answer is surprisingly simple

   BACK in July 2007, John Heilemann, a writer for New York magazine and
   an alumnus of this newspaper, argued that it was possible to imagine
   John McCain winning the Republican nomination--but only if you had
   been fortified by "half a bottle of Maker's Mark, followed by a
   nitrous-oxide chaser". Mr McCain is now back. But a bigger question
   remains. Do you need to partake of Mr Heilemann's chemical cocktail to
   believe that the Republican nomination is worth having?

   The Republicans look like dead men walking. Almost two-thirds of
   Americans regard the Iraq war as a mistake. A similar proportion think
   that the country is on the wrong track. Americans regard the Democrats
   as more competent than Republicans by a margin of five to three and
   more ethical by a margin of two to one. They prefer Democratic
   policies on everything from health care to taxes.

   These figures have come to life in Iowa and New Hampshire. Twice as
   many Democrats turned out to caucus in Iowa as Republicans. The
   Democrats are fired up with Bush-hatred and ready to take the White
   House. The Republicans are despondent and defensive. "I'd rather vote
   for a dead dog than a Democrat", one New Hampshirite told this
   columnist. "But the way things are going it might have to be the dead
   dog."

   The party has flailed around for a champion without success. Rudy
   Giuliani led the national polls for months only to implode. Fred
   Thompson sped to the front for a while only to fall asleep at the
   wheel. The party is divided into warring factions. Mitt Romney and
   Mike Huckabee have as much in common as their respective alma
   maters--Harvard Business School and Ouachita Baptist University. The
   party is also in danger of going off the deep end. Mr Huckabee denies
   that man is descended from the apes. Everyone except Mr McCain seems
   to think that it's a good plan to send 12m illegal immigrants back
   home.

   The party's travails are producing a fierce argument on the right. Are
   the Republicans' problems just part of the normal political cycle? Or
   do they portend the end of an era? The pragmatists argue that the
   problems are just a matter of competence and happenstance. The war in
   Iraq was badly managed until Bob Gates and General David Petraeus took
   over. The White House's response to Hurricane Katrina was dismal. The
   Republican majority in Congress fell victim to the normal foibles of
   greed and lust. Voters always grow tired of incumbents.

   The fundamentalists think that there is something much deeper going
   on. Ed Rollins, a former Reagan aide who is now Mr Huckabee's campaign
   chairman, argues that the machine that Ronald Reagan built is now
   finished. The coalition of social conservatives, defence conservatives
   and anti-tax conservatives "doesn't mean a whole lot to people
   anymore". Mr Huckabee is openly critical of George Bush's foreign
   policy.

   The truth is more nuanced. There is more than happenstance at work,
   but less than the break-up of the Republican coalition. Mr Bush's
   people pursued a self-defeating political strategy. They fired up the
   Republican base, ignoring the centre and rewarding their loyalists
   with government largesse. But Mr Bush's serial incompetence destroyed
   his narrow majority. And his addiction to government spending
   alienated fiscal conservatives.

   Mr Bush's Republicans also made serious policy errors. They stuck
   their head in the sand over global warming. They ignored rising
   anxiety about stagnating middle-class incomes. They turned the war on
   terrorism into a defining issue and then messed it up. Mr Reagan had a
   lasting influence not just because he forged a coalition but also
   because he was right on the biggest issues of his time--the importance
   of shrinking government and facing down communism. The Republicans are
   now in danger of being either wrong or half wrong on two of the
   defining issues of our time--global warming and radical Islam.

   This suggests that the Republicans need to engage in some vigorous
   rethinking, and fast. But it does not add up to a case for taking a
   jack-hammer to the Reagan coalition. The coalition has served the
   Republicans handsomely in the past--they will have held the White
   House for 20 of the past 28 years and controlled the House for 12
   years from 1995. Jackhammering the coalition would almost certainly be
   a disaster. Do the Republicans really want to abandon a chunk of their
   core voters when they are already behind in the polls? And do they
   want to engage in a civil war in the middle of a tight election?

   The value of values

   Business conservatives can never win a majority without the support of
   "values voters" (there just are not enough people around who look like
   Mr Romney). "Values voters" can never produce a viable governing
   coalition without the help of the business elite. The Republicans have
   seen revolts against their ruling coalition before--remember Pat
   Buchanan's pitchfork rebellion against George Bush senior--and they
   have always succeeded in putting it back together again. They need to
   do the same now. Enough Republicans believe enough of the Reagan
   mantra--less government, traditional values and strong defence--to
   make it a workable philosophy.

   The doomsters draw the wrong lesson from the Bush years. The lesson of
   the Bush presidency is not that the Republican coalition is exhausted
   but that it has been badly managed. Mr Bush has failed to keep the
   coalition in balance--he tilted too far towards his party's moralistic
   southern wing and too far away from its libertarian western wing. He
   has allowed public spending to balloon and pork-barrel politicians to
   run wild. And he has ignored big changes in public opinion about
   climate change. The Republican Party certainly needs to update its
   agenda to deal with problems Reagan never grappled with. But this is
   no time to go breaking the mould and starting again.


   The Supreme Court calls a retreat in the drug wars 

   SINCE 1970, when the Controlled Substances Act was enacted, the number
   of people arrested for drug offences has risen from 416,000 to
   1,890,000 a year. Prisons are bursting at the seams: California's are
   at 191% of their official capacity. And drugs are both cheaper and
   more plentiful. Reversing this unlucky campaign will be no easier than
   staging a tidy withdrawal from Iraq. Yet this week judges took an
   important step in that direction.

   On December 10th the Supreme Court issued lenient rulings in two drug
   cases. The first was that of a small-time crack-cocaine dealer,
   Derrick Kimbrough, who had been sentenced to 15 years in prison.
   Although hardly a slap on the wrist, that was between four and
   seven-and-a-half years less than national sentencing guidelines
   dictated. The other case concerned Brian Gall, an otherwise upstanding
   fellow who had briefly traded ecstasy while a student at university.
   He, too, received a sentence more lenient than the guidelines
   suggested. Higher courts objected; but, by a seven-to-two margin in
   both cases, the judges upheld the milder sentences.

   If that was a tactical retreat in the war on drugs, the following day
   brought a headlong flight. The sentencing commission, which sets the
   guidelines that judges are supposed to follow, voted to reduce
   retroactively sentences for crack-dealing. Some 2,500 convicts will be
   let out next year, and almost 20,000 will be able to apply for shorter
   sentences.

   The Supreme Court cases turned on the issue of whether judicial
   discretion is more important than consistency in sentencing. But other
   issues intruded. The guidelines, which were laid down in 1986, were
   supposed to make punishment more predictable. Yet they also opened a
   racially tinged rift between sentences for trafficking different types
   of cocaine. When weighing a dealer's offence, judges have been
   expected to treat a gram of crack as equivalent to 100 grams (3.5
   ounces) of powder. The effect has been to stuff the prisons with
   blacks, who are two-and-a-half times as likely as whites to smoke
   crack.

   The judges' rulings do not mean an end to harsh sentencing. They allow
   more leeway rather than enforcing leniency, and do not apply directly
   to the state courts where most drug cases are heard. Yet they set a
   more moderate tone--a welcome contrast to the viciousness that has
   characterised the drug wars so far.


   The Republican battle for the religious vote gets rough 

                                                                  Reuters

                                  Reuters

                      Presidential, but under pressure


   A HANDFUL of protesters stood outside George Bush senior's
   presidential library. One handed out anti-Mormon pamphlets; another
   held up a pair of flip-flops. Inside, Mitt Romney gave a long-awaited
   speech, hoping to reassure religious Republicans that they can safely
   vote for a Mormon.

   He sorely needed to strike the right note. Many Republican primary
   voters, especially evangelical Christians, distrust his faith. In
   recent weeks, Mr Romney has lost his poll lead in Iowa and South
   Carolina to Mike Huckabee, a former governor of Arkansas and, more
   important, a charismatic, guitar-playing Baptist preacher.

   In his speech on December 6th, Mr Romney used the word "Mormon" only
   once. He mentioned only the Mormon beliefs which other Christians
   share, such as that Jesus is the son of God. Rather than getting
   entangled in theology, he made three broad points.

   If elected, he said, he would "serve no one religion, no one group, no
   one cause and no one interest". Echoing John Kennedy's promise in 1960
   not to take orders from the pope, he said that neither his church nor
   any other would tell him what to do.

   But whereas Kennedy said he believed in the "absolute" separation of
   church and state, Mr Romney qualified that a little. The founders
   barred the establishment of a state religion, he said, but "they did
   not countenance the elimination of religion from the public square."
   This was a sop to Christians who fret that militant secularists have
   gone too far in banning, for example, voluntary prayer in public
   schools.

   Mr Romney argued that a president's specific denomination is
   unimportant, so long as he has one. He embraced "our nation's symphony
   of faith", praising the profundity of Catholic ceremony, the ancient
   traditions of the Jews and the commitment to frequent prayer of the
   Muslims. He contrasted America's tradition of lively religious liberty
   with the deadening effect of state sponsorship in Europe. "I have
   visited many of the magnificent cathedrals in Europe. They are so
   inspired...so grand...so empty." And he promised to stand up to the
   other extreme, the theocratic tyranny of violent jihad.

   There was something for everyone in the speech, except atheists.
   Jacques Berlinerblau, the author of "Thumpin' It: The Use and Abuse of
   the Bible in Today's Presidential Politics", reckons that unbelieving
   Americans will feel excluded by lines such as "Freedom requires
   religion just as religion requires freedom." Pressed, Mr Romney admits
   he has no problem with atheists. But many of the conservative voters
   he is trying to woo do.

   And thanks to those voters Mr Huckabee's surge continues. Many
   evangelicals plainly feel more comfortable backing one of their own.
   Mr Huckabee himself stresses that no one should hold Mr Romney's
   religion against him. Perish the thought. But he bills himself as a
   Christian candidate, ignores the question when asked if Mr Romney is
   Christian too, and asks questions like: "Don't Mormons believe that
   Jesus and the devil are brothers?" (The Mormon church says this is a
   question often asked by those who wish to denigrate Mormonism; it
   refers to the Mormon belief that God is the father of all.)

   Mr Romney cannot plausibly hope that evangelicals will like him better
   than Mr Huckabee. But he might persuade them that Mr Huckabee is
   unelectable nationally. Free-market types gasp at the Arkansan's
   protectionist rhetoric. Deficit hawks shudder at his plan to abolish
   income tax. And Democrats salivate at the prospect of fighting a man
   who, however amiable, does not believe in evolution and was still
   arguing in the early 1990s that people with AIDS should be isolated.
   Evangelicals may love a hollering Southern preacher; swing voters are
   not so sure.

   Mr Romney launched his first television spot attacking Mr Huckabee in
   Iowa this week, accusing him of being soft on illegal immigration. In
   fact, both men, while governors, took a moderate and humane approach
   to illegals. But that is not what the conservative caucus-goers want
   to hear. It is shaping up to be a dirty, messy campaign.


   Politicians want to give the economy a boost. They're likely to make a
   hash of it

                                                                       AP
                                                                       AP

                                                       Mr Bush has a plan

   JUST occasionally, Washington's creaky political machine can whir into
   rapid action. Something of the sort is happening in the debate about
   fiscal stimulus. A month ago, a few academics were calling on Congress
   to spur the weakening economy with tax cuts or higher spending. Now,
   after a run of statistics suggest the economy has stalled, politicians
   of all stripes have jumped on the bandwagon.

   The White House wants to announce a stimulus package in George Bush's
   state-of-the-union address of January 28th. Nancy Pelosi, the speaker
   of the House of Representatives, wants the details hashed out before
   then. With neither party keen to face voters in the midst of a
   recession, legislation now seems quite possible. Less obvious is
   whether it will make any sense.

   Most economists agree on the characteristics of sensible fiscal
   stimulus: the measures should conform to three "T"s: timely,
   well-targeted and temporary. Take too long, and the recession could be
   over before stimulus is agreed. Target the money on people most likely
   to spend it and you get the most demand-boosting bang for the buck.
   Don't let the measures permanently worsen the government's budget
   position. Consensus is even emerging on the appropriate size of any
   boost: somewhere around $100 billion, a bit less than 1% of GDP. That
   could provide the economy with a significant short-term jolt.
   Calculations by Douglas Elmendorf of the Brookings Institution suggest
   that a temporary tax rebate worth $100 billion could boost the
   annualised rate of GDP growth by between 0.8 and 3 percentage points
   in the quarter in which it was enacted.

   Unfortunately, even the wonks do not agree on what measures best fit
   these criteria. At a Brookings Institution forum on January 10th,
   Martin Feldstein, a Harvard professor and leading Republican
   economist, argued for an income tax rebate and opposed extending
   unemployment insurance. Mark Zandi, head of [3]Moody's Economy.com,
   favoured more help for the jobless and a payroll tax holiday.
   Think-tanks have piled in too. The Economic Policy Institute wants
   job-generating infrastructure improvements. The Centre on Budget and
   Policy Priorities wants more help for struggling state governments.

   So far, the only politicians to weigh in with detailed plans are
   people who cannot enact them this year: presidential candidates. Some
   are reasonably sensible. Barack Obama, for instance, wants everyone to
   get a $250 tax cut, which would double if economic indicators continue
   to worsen. Others look more like a fiscal Christmas tree. Hillary
   Clinton wants a $70 billion package: $30 billion in housing
   assistance, $25 billion in home-energy subsidies, $10 billion on
   expanding payments to the unemployed and $5 billion for environmental
   projects. The Republican presidential candidates want to make Mr
   Bush's tax cuts permanent--an odd priority just now since they don't
   expire until 2010.

   Early indications suggest that both the White House and congressional
   leaders are eschewing such a fiscal free-for-all. The speculation is
   that Mr Bush will push for tax breaks for businesses and a tax rebate
   for individuals, but will not insist on extending his tax cuts. Top
   Democrats in Congress are also keen on a tax rebate, but they want to
   make sure it helps poorer consumers, perhaps by making it refundable
   for those who do not pay income tax. They also want more government
   spending, perhaps by extending unemployment insurance or by giving
   more money to the states.

   Barney Frank, an influential Democrat on economic issues, says that
   stimulus must pass before the end of February. But the coming
   negotiations could become a nightmare. In the Senate, 60 votes out of
   100 are needed to guarantee passage. Republicans may demand an
   extension to the Bush tax cuts. Individual senators are likely to add
   their pet projects and priorities. Gridlock could easily delay any
   compromise package past the point at which it would do the economy any
   good. The three "T"s may have become Washington's new mantra. But the
   odds of politicians delivering are still slim.


   The Mayor doth protest too much
   "Miss, no matter how many times you ask the question, I'm not a
   candidate. That's the answer. I can't go into nitpicking. This is
   ridiculous."

   Michael Bloomberg, Mayor of New York, gets snappy with reporters.
   [3]CNN.com, January 14th

   Civil union
   "Hillary, marry me, baby."

   Senator Hillary Clinton has some very enthusiastic supporters in Los
   Angeles. [4]CNN.com, January 11th

   Street cred
   "I had an old, beat-up car, had a little, tiny beat-up apartment. I
   was wearing raggedy, beat-up clothes. I got holes in the shoes, had
   holes in my car. You all've been there. You know what I'm talking
   about."

   Barack Obama talks up his working class credentials, discussing his
   years as a community organiser in Chicago, January 11th

   Only human
   "Sweat a bit."

   Jack Welch advises Mitt Romney on how to make himself less perfect.
   MSNBC, January 14th 

   Take a break
   "He took one day off, then got right back to work being the governor
   of New Mexico. He's a glutton for punishment."

   Tom Reynolds, campaign spokesman for Bill Richardson who dropped out
   of the presidential race on January 10th. Washington Post, January
   14th 

   Play hard
   "Get rough, Fred, get rough."

   A South Carolinian voter who would like to see Fred Thompson more
   engaged. Washington Times, January 14th 

   Lucky charms
   "Some of our superstitions are a day old, some are many years old."

   John McCain, hoping to win in Michigan, carried a lucky penny and was
   wearing the same sweater he wore when he won in New Hampshire.
   [5]ABCNews.com, January 15th 

   Scary monsters
   "He's not the happiest boy today. I think he must be a Romney voter.
   Look at him. He's so sad."

   Mike Huckabee tries to comfort a crying toddler in Michigan.
   Associated Press, January 15th


   A shortage of hops threatens Christmas

   JUST as the festive season gets going, drinkers in America are finding
   their favourite beer suddenly more expensive or even--horrors!--not
   available at all. Hit by price increases and shortages, many
   breweries, particularly the small "craft brewers" and the even smaller
   microbreweries, are being forced to raise prices, make do with
   modified recipes or shut off the spigots altogether.

   The humble hop, the plant that gives beer its distinctive flavour, is
   the main problem. Many farmers in the Pacific north-west, where
   America's hop production is concentrated, have turned to more
   profitable lines--especially corn, which can be made into ethanol. The
   decrease in hop production, put at some 50% over the past decade, has
   sent prices through the roof. Brian Owens, the brewmaster of the
   O'Fallon Brewery near St Louis, Missouri, says that the variety he
   once bought for $3 a pound (0.45kg) now costs five times that. Many
   smaller breweries cannot find what they need at any price. Industry
   giants like Anheuser-Busch and Miller are better off, thanks to
   long-term contracts. But even Anheuser-Busch has been forced to raise
   prices for its six-packs.

   Without their supply of hops, some smaller producers are going out of
   business, bringing to a halt the fastest-growing segment of the
   industry. Other craft brewers and brewpubs are experimenting with new
   recipes, hoping their customers will adapt.

   The hops shortage is only part of the problem. Things are no better
   for barley, used to make the malt that yeast turns into alcohol. It
   too has been ploughed under in favour of corn. Crop failures in
   Australia and Europe, combined with the weak dollar, have made it
   harder to replace the shortage with imports. Other price increases, of
   fuel, glass and metal, add to the pressure. Not such a merry
   Christmas.


   The Republican Party is among the war's victims

                                                             Getty Images

                                Getty Images


   FOUR years ago, as American troops rolled across Iraq, the Republican
   Party was on a roll too. Republicans not only controlled the whole of
   Washington (seven of the nine Supreme Court justices had been
   appointed by Republican presidents). They controlled the majority of
   governorships as well--including those of mega-states such as Florida
   and New York--and they were winning the war of ideas, thanks to a
   division of conservative think-tanks.

   Republican strategists were consumed by heady visions of power without
   end. The "war on terror", which was dividing the Democrats, was
   encouraging Republican factions to bury their differences. Karl Rove,
   George Bush's chief strategist, liked to compare his boss to William
   McKinley, the late-19th-century president who had ushered in an age of
   Republican dominance. Grover Norquist, an anti-tax crusader, dubbed Mr
   Bush "Reagan's son".

   For a moment the 2004 election seemed to justify this vision, with an
   improved Republican performance among blacks, Hispanics and,
   particularly, women. But by 2007 the Democrats were back in control of
   both chambers of Congress and itching to retake the White House. Fully
   40% of Republicans believe that the Democrats will capture the
   presidency in 2008, compared with 12% of Democrats who think the
   Republicans will hang on to it. Ken Mehlman, the party chairman who
   oversaw the 2004 triumph, is now advising hedge funds on how to deal
   with a Democratic-leaning world. The Republicans may well be left with
   nothing except the solid South and a few patches of the Midwest, just
   as the Democrats were at the end of the 19th century.

   There are plenty of reasons for the party's agonies. The Republicans
   fell victim to all the diseases of incumbency--from spending like
   drunken sailors to corruption to cronyism--and the Bush administration
   made a hash of responding to Hurricane Katrina. But the Iraq war lies
   at the heart of the party's problems. The war has deprived Mr Bush of
   the oxygen of popularity. A recent CBS News/New York Times poll found
   that only 39% of Americans now think that invading Iraq was the right
   thing to do, compared with 55% who think it was a mistake. It has also
   provided the Democrats with a huge stick with which to beat the
   opposition.

   Far from uniting Republicans, the war is beginning to divide them. It
   is true that solid majorities of Republicans continue to believe that
   embarking on the war was the right decision (76%) and that America
   should stay until the job is done (71%). It is also true that the
   Democrats remain divided on the subject. But the wedge that Mr Bush
   fashioned in 2004 is now being driven into his own coalition, with
   sections of the conservative intelligentsia in full-scale revolt.

   Stephen Bainbridge, a conservative academic at the University of
   California, Los Angeles, has argued that Mr Bush's decision to go to
   war has "pissed away the conservative moment by pursuing a war of
   choice via policies that border on the criminally incompetent."
   William Buckley, the pope of the conservative movement, says that if
   Mr Bush were the leader of a parliamentary system, "it would be
   expected that he would retire or resign". Richard Viguerie, another
   conservative veteran, says that "I've never seen conservatives so
   downright fed-up as they are today."

   The war has eviscerated the administration's reputation for
   competence--and with it the idea that the Republicans have an inherent
   advantage as the "Daddy" party. An administration that once boasted
   about its clutch of CEOs will forever be remembered for phrases such
   as "slam dunk" (of WMD intelligence) and "Mission Accomplished", or
   for disasters such as the failure to prepare Walter Reed and other
   military hospitals to deal with casualties. The same CBS News/New York
   Times poll found that only 28% of people approved of Mr Bush's
   handling of the situation in Iraq.

   And that is hardly the limit of the damage. A CNN/ORC poll found that
   54% of people thought that the administration had deliberately misled
   the American people about whether Iraq had WMD. An ABC News/Washington
   Post poll in February found that 63% of respondents did not trust the
   Bush administration to report honestly about possible threats from
   other countries. The Democratic Party will use its majority status
   over the next couple of years to deepen the public's unease about the
   administration's conduct of the war. As a result, an "R" by a
   candidate's name could be even more of a scarlet letter in 2008 than
   it was in 2006.

   Mr Bush's mishandling of the war has damaged the Republican Party's
   two biggest advantages over the Democrats--its reputation for skilful
   foreign policy and for the unapologetic use of force. The likes of
   Richard Nixon, Henry Kissinger, George Bush senior and Brent Scowcroft
   clearly identified the Republicans with mastery of foreign policy.
   (Bob Woodward asked Mr Bush whether he had consulted his father before
   invading Iraq. The son replied that he had consulted a "higher
   father".) By contrast, the peace wing of the Democratic Party clearly
   linked the Democrats with being soft on defence.

   But the Iraq war has destroyed the Republicans' advantage of decades.
   The party is losing support even among the once solid armed services.
   Today only 46% of servicemen describe themselves as Republican,
   compared with 60% in 2004--and only 35% of them approve of the
   handling of the war. Voters are now much more willing to listen to the
   Democrats on war and peace. Barack Obama's statement in 2002--"I'm not
   opposed to all wars. I'm opposed to dumb wars"--is a perfect refrain
   for a resurgent party.

   The Iraq war has also eroded the Republicans' advantage in the "war on
   terror", not least because of Mr Bush's success in tying the two
   subjects together in the 2004 campaign. Many Republicans thought that
   the war on terror might have the same effect as the cold war,
   consolidating their party's hold on the executive branch (Democratic
   presidents had to wait until the end of the cold war to win two terms
   in the White House). But that now seems unlikely. The Republican
   Party's gigantic advantage in this area after September 11th has all
   but vanished. The same February ABC News/Washington Post poll found
   that 52% of respondents trusted the Democrats in Congress to do a
   better job of handling America's campaign against terrorism than Mr
   Bush.

   At the same time, the war has taken a huge toll on the
   administration's domestic policies. After the 2004 election Mr Bush
   sketched out an ambitious agenda for avoiding the fate of previous
   second-term presidents and moving the country in a more Republican
   direction: reforming immigration and Social Security, simplifying
   taxes and lifting regulations. That agenda has come to almost nothing.
   Senior figures have been constantly distracted by dealing with the
   fallout from Iraq. (One reason the administration was so tardy in
   dealing with Katrina was that Karl Rove was worried he might become a
   victim of the Plame affair.) In late 2005 the administration concluded
   that it was impossible to push through big initiatives, such as Social
   Security reform, in a time of war.

   The man who will pay the biggest political price for Iraq will
   ultimately be Mr Bush. It is hardly surprising that liberal historians
   debate whether he is the worst president ever. But now conservatives
   are beginning to play the same game. A recent poll of hard-core
   conservative activists found that only 3% described themselves as
   George Bush Republicans, compared with 79% who regarded themselves as
   Ronald Reagan Republicans. But the damage will not be limited to the
   party leader. For years to come, the Republicans will be paying a
   collective price for the "stuff" that happened in Iraq.


   Americans are in a funk. They should cheer up a bit



   "DUMB and Dumber", one of the modern classics of American comedy,
   tells the story of an affable idiot, Lloyd Christmas, who falls in
   love with a classy beauty, Mary Swanson. In one scene he asks her the
   chances of "a guy like you and a girl like me" ending up together. The
   answer is "Not good". "Not good like one out of a hundred?" asks
   Lloyd. "More like one out of a million," Mary replies. Lloyd pauses
   for a moment, then shoots back, "So you're telling me there's a
   chance?"

   That is the American spirit. Americans have traditionally been much
   more optimistic than Europeans, and happier too. They believe that
   people determine their own destinies rather than being the mere
   playthings of fate. They also believe that their children will have a
   better life than they do.

   This helps to explain the dynamism of the American economy. Americans
   regard failure--even bankruptcy--as a stone in the road rather than a
   damning verdict. It also helps to explain the appeal of the American
   experiment. "The American, by nature, is optimistic," JFK once said.
   "He is experimental, an inventor and a builder who builds best when
   called upon to build greatly." Europeans ask, "Why?" Americans ask,
   "Why not?"

   But the past five years have produced a dramatic souring in the
   country's mood. Three-quarters of Americans now think that the country
   is "on the wrong track". The number of people who are hostile to trade
   and immigration has risen sharply, as has the number who think that
   America should engage less in world affairs. Trust in government is
   half what it was in 2001. Both the president and Congress have
   bargain-basement approval ratings. And people are increasingly
   pessimistic about the future. Barely a third thinks that their
   children will be better off than they themselves are. The reason why
   the man with the message of hope, Barack Obama, and the man who hails
   from Hope, Mike Huckabee, are doing so well is that people think hope
   is in short supply.

   There are good reasons for this pessimism. People are tired of the
   Bush administration, with its partisanship and incompetence. The Iraq
   war has shattered America's image of itself as a mighty but
   good-hearted giant. Iraq means chaos and Abu Ghraib rather than the
   triumphant export of democracy. The war may be going better of late,
   but the majority of Americans still think that it was not worth the
   fighting, and the bad news about the economy is burying the good news
   about the "surge". Americans are accustomed to thinking of their
   houses as pots of gold (and pots of gold that can be remortgaged when
   you need a bit of extra cash). The gold is now turning into lead.

   This is creating a bull market in pessimism. The likes of Bill
   O'Reilly and Lou Dobbs have transformed themselves into cable stars by
   ranting about cultural decay and "broken borders". Patrick Buchanan's
   latest book is called "Day of Reckoning: How Hubris, Ideology and
   Greed are Tearing America Apart". "We are on a path to national
   suicide," he says. America is not just "coming apart", but also
   "decomposing".

   There is certainly no shortage of bad news. But coming apart?
   Decomposing? The current issue of Commentary--a magazine hardly noted
   for its sunny disposition--contains an excellent article, "Crime,
   Drugs, Welfare and Other Good News" by Peter Wehner (a former senior
   White House aide) and Yuval Levin, which shows why Mr Buchanan is
   talking through his hat.

   Both violent crime and property crime have declined dramatically since
   1973. New York City will probably notch up less than 500 murders this
   year, the lowest since the early 1960s (the figure for 1990 was
   2,262). Teenagers are cleaning up their act. Teenage drug use has
   fallen by 23% overall since the 1990s, and by 50% for LSD and ecstasy.
   Teens are drinking less, smoking less, having sex less and dropping
   out of school less. The birth rate for 15-19-year-olds has fallen by
   35% since 1991. At 10%, the high-school drop-out rate is at a 30-year
   low.

   Welfare reform is working. The welfare caseload has dropped by 60%
   since 1994. A series of social evils--overall poverty, child poverty,
   child hunger--have all decreased. Employment figures for single
   mothers have surged. The number of abortions fell from over 1.6m in
   1990 to fewer than 1.3m this year. The divorce rate is at its lowest
   level since 1970. Education scores are up.

   Things are not all hunky-dory. The violent crime rate has ticked
   upward in the past couple of years. Illegitimacy is at an all-time
   high. But this is a very different world from the 1970s, when
   America's leading cultural indicators all started to point towards
   Gomorrah. American civil society, aided by sensible social policies,
   is gradually repairing the damage of the past few decades.

   Lighten up, Pat

   What about Mr Buchanan's particular bugbear, immigration? For all the
   passion that this is igniting, America is blessedly free from the
   alienated immigrant populations that so trouble France and other
   European countries. America still has a genius for employing and
   assimilating newcomers. English classes are crammed and
   English-language tuition is a giant business. And America's ability to
   suck in and assimilate immigrants is part of a bigger and better
   story. European economies face profound long-term problems because of
   their citizens' reluctance to reproduce. Americans have the highest
   fertility rate of any rich country. That is a long-term vote of
   confidence in the country's future.

   In fact, Americans have always had a vigorous tradition of pessimism,
   in counterpoint to the optimistic one. In 1819 John Adams worried
   about the duration of "our vast American Empire". In 1948 Richard
   Hofstadter complained that "competition and opportunity" had gone into
   decline and that Americans were looking "wistfully back toward a
   golden age". Much of today's pessimism may prove as unfounded.
   Americans should rediscover the spirit of Lloyd Christmas, idiot
   though he was.


   How the interior is learning to live with a shrinking population

   IN EASTERN Colorado, the human tide ebbs. Cheyenne county, which had
   3,700 inhabitants in 1930, now has just 1,900. And the drift away from
   the area seems to be speeding up. In the old county jail, which is now
   a museum, a photograph from 1910 shows a three-storey schoolhouse
   towering over the town of Cheyenne Wells. The new school is one storey
   high--yet it already seems too big.

   America as a whole is growing briskly. Between 2000 and 2006 its
   population swelled by 6.4%, according to the Census Bureau. Yet the
   expansion has passed many areas by. Two-fifths of all counties are
   shrinking (see map). In general, people are moving to places that are
   warm, mountainous or suburban. They are leaving many rural areas, with
   the most relentless decline in a broad band stretching from western
   Texas to North Dakota. In parts, the Great Plains are more sparsely
   populated now than they were in the late 19th century, when the
   government declared them to be deserted.

   A big reason is improvements in farming technology. Tractors in
   eastern Colorado do not resemble the vehicles that trundle around
   farms on the east coast and in Europe. They are many-wheeled monsters,
   sometimes driven by global positioning systems. Toby Johnson says his
   40,000-acre (16,200-hectare) ranch in Cheyenne county employed between
   eight and ten workers in the 1950s. It now has two, including him.
   When old farmers retire, their plots tend to be swallowed up by
   larger, more efficient operators.

   The population of the Great Plains teeters on this shrinking
   agricultural base. While much of Colorado grew, Cheyenne county shrank
   every year between 2000 and 2006, when it lost more than 300 people.
   Children are disappearing even more quickly. Ten years ago 495 pupils
   enrolled in the county's public schools; this year 320 did. In Kit
   Carson, the second-biggest settlement, the school enrolled just four
   teenagers in the tenth grade. Shops and houses nearby are already
   boarded up. If the school were to close, there would be little reason
   for the town to exist at all.

   Rayetta Palmer, a councilwoman in Cheyenne Wells, can nonetheless cite
   a list of local strengths. The few children get lots of attention: Kit
   Carson's schools have a pupil-to-teacher ratio of seven to one,
   compared with 18 to one in Denver, the state capital. As a result,
   they do well in tests. Crime is rare. The community is strikingly
   cohesive: at the petrol stations that double as cafés, locals do not
   take empty tables but sit together, as in a school dining room.

   The trouble is that such qualities are not the sort of thing that
   might persuade businesses to move to the area. Some are more likely to
   deter them. The strong community spirit sometimes morphs into a fierce
   resistance to change, particularly when it is advocated by newcomers.
   Cindy Perry, who has tried to revitalise Kit Carson by renovating
   buildings and starting a shop, woke one morning to find a
   newly-painted building covered with graffiti.

   Fighting back

   Optimists point to two likely developments that may slow the decline.
   Assuming a power line is built, wind farms will probably appear in the
   area in the next few years, as they have in western Texas. That will
   generate construction jobs and tax revenues. A more ambitious proposal
   involves building a "super-highway" between Mexico and Canada, which
   would pass through eastern Colorado. Backers say it would almost
   double traffic through Cheyenne county, leading to an increase in jobs
   and perhaps even in people. Yet the road is many years from being
   built.

   Cheyenne county is not especially poor. Indeed, at the moment it is
   enjoying an agricultural boom. Heavy snow last winter, combined with a
   drought in Australia, means local wheat farmers have a large crop to
   sell at record prices, which touched $10 a bushel for the first time
   last month. In parts of north-east Colorado, corn farmers are
   profiting from a strong demand for ethanol. Yet the future of
   irrigated agriculture (the most profitable kind) is gloomy. In central
   Colorado, thirsty cities have been buying water rights from farmers.
   Elsewhere, farmers have been prevented from pumping groundwater by
   lawyers in Kansas, downriver. If the wells close, the corn boom will
   end.

   There is a somewhat drastic alternative. In the 1980s two academics
   from Rutgers University suggested turning the plains into a "buffalo
   commons", where the animals that grazed the area before white
   immigration would be encouraged to return. The idea was so unpopular
   that its authors occasionally had to be protected by police. But it is
   nonetheless coming to pass.

   Buffalo meat is leaner than beef, and thus well suited to contemporary
   health worries. Partly as a result, the buffalo are coming back: some
   62,000 were slaughtered between January and November last year, a 17%
   rise over a year earlier. Of the plains states, only North Dakota has
   openly mulled turning over large tracts of land to the furry
   megafauna. But other areas, including eastern Colorado, have preserved
   grasslands and are touting their natural resources and history--a
   vivid one of brutal treks and Indian massacres.

   Jo Downey of the Plains Development Corporation reckons nothing can
   stop the drift away from places like Cheyenne county, and others
   agree. The challenge for the future is not to stem the tide, but to
   keep life as pleasant as possible for those who remain. This is not an
   easy task. Compared with the consequences of rapid growth, such as
   traffic jams and illegal immigration, to which so much political
   energy is devoted, the problems of depopulation can appear
   intractable.


                                                         Kevin Kallaugher

                              Kevin Kallaugher

   Al Gore has more to lose than to gain from running for president

   THINGS just keep on getting better for Al Gore. He is not only a
   global-warming guru--the man who changed the climate of opinion on
   climate change--he is also an all-purpose political guru as well. He
   was mocked back in 2000 for accusing George Bush of "risky schemes".
   Since then Mr Bush has turned into a Pandora's box of risky schemes.
   He was ridiculed in America back in 2002 for denouncing the invasion
   of Iraq. Few would ridicule him today. Europeans only have to look at
   Mr Gore (and these days there is slightly more of him to look at) to
   think of what life might have been like without the Toxic Texan.
   Surely he will soon have a Nobel peace prize to add to his Oscar.

   Mr Gore remains a whirlwind of activity. His new book, "The Assault on
   Reason", lets the Bush administration have it with both barrels,
   accusing it of sacrificing evidence to ideology and constitutional
   restraints to zealotry. But he does not stop there. He worries about
   America's money-saturated politics. He lambasts television for
   infantilising the electorate. American democracy, it seems, is as sick
   as the planet.

   Soon he will reappear in his global-warming guise--this time as an
   impresario of nine simultaneous "Live Earth" pop concerts on seven
   continents, including Antarctica, on July 7th. These concerts will
   solidify Mr Gore's reputation among the young for "getting it". They
   will also publicise his new organisation, the Alliance for Climate
   Protection.

   All of which raises the question: should Mr Gore revive his political
   career? Rumours that he is planning to jump into the presidential race
   are everywhere. It is even said that his friends have established a
   secret campaign organisation. He has only to refuse a second helping
   of fried chicken, on the ground that he's watching his weight, and
   it's assumed he's running.

   Mr Gore is well enough known to get into the race late. And a late
   entry could well carry him all the way to the nomination--exciting the
   party's left, creating a media frenzy, and making Hillary Clinton and
   Barack Obama look like old news. "He's going to run," James Carville,
   a consultant-turned-pundit, has told Rolling Stone, "and he's going to
   be formidable."

   Formidable or not, Mr Gore should resist such siren voices. He may
   have been in the business since he was 28. He may have run for
   president before he was 40. But he is the very opposite of a natural,
   like Bill Clinton or Mr Obama. He looks horribly out of place in the
   political bear pit. And he consistently sells himself short as a
   politician--emphasising expediency over vision even when vision might
   have been in his interest, as when he all but ignored global warming
   in 2000.

   Mr Gore lost an unlosable election in 2000 (yes, he won the popular
   vote, but the election should never have been close). He had eight
   years of peace and prosperity behind him. His opponent was an
   inexperienced scamp who could not name the president of Pakistan. But
   Mr Gore sighed his way through the first debate and painted himself
   orange in the third. He could easily have solved the Monica problem by
   promising to be Bill Clinton without the blow jobs; instead he
   embraced a silly "people against the powerful" populism.

   At last, the real Al Gore

   Mr Gore's friends say that he has at last discovered his real
   self--casting off his old inhibitions and letting his passion rip. But
   surely he is only at ease with himself precisely because he has
   abandoned politics? And surely the old Gore would re-emerge if he made
   another bid for the White House? He would inevitably have to talk
   about more than global warming. And he would have to make a compromise
   with the campaign-finance system that he now excoriates. How long
   would it be before he found himself in a Buddhist temple begging for
   money?

   Mr Gore always gave the impression that he was in politics out of duty
   rather than vocation--his father, a self-made Tennessee senator,
   dearly wanted his son to be president. But that ambition became a
   prison for Mr Gore. It forced a natural introvert to spend his time
   with people and turned a natural didact into a deal-maker. More
   important, Mr Gore has found his real calling at last: as a public
   intellectual cum polemicist cum elder statesman. He is not a perfect
   polemicist. His style is on the stodgy side. His latest book goes over
   a lot of well-tilled ground about Mr Bush's "faith-based policies". He
   sometimes comes across as eccentric--as when he lambasts television
   for killing public discourse, then celebrates the internet as its
   potential saviour. A few minutes online, reading the zealots on either
   the right or the left, should have been enough to explode that
   illusion.

   Nevertheless the whole package is compelling. Mr Gore brings a unique
   qualification to his writing: the fact that he has operated at the
   highest level of government. He writes like somebody with something
   important to say. He packs his argument with facts and illustrations.
   Above all, he has a genius for getting his message
   across--button-holing leaders the world over, producing different
   versions of his book for children and young adults, training more than
   1,000 "climate messengers" and generally refusing to let go of the
   bone. "Those who believe all his garbage are going to be excited to
   death," Trent Lott, a senior Republican senator, sneered during Mr
   Gore's recent appearance before a congressional committee. But a
   surprising number of Republican backbenchers were quietly excited.

   Enoch Powell, a British politician, once remarked that "all political
   lives end in failure because that is the nature of politics and of
   human affairs." In one sense Mr Gore's career ended in spectacular
   failure--the presidency ripped from his grasp. But in another he won a
   rare chance at an afterlife. He is the country's conscience on its
   gas-guzzling ways. He is also the president America never had. Better,
   surely, to be a presidential might-have-been than just another member
   of the 2008 freak show.


   An idea revered in theory, not in practice

   BARACK OBAMA won the Iowa caucus on January 3rd with a message that
   emphasised hope, unity and working together across party lines. By
   doing so he may have dispatched a formidable foe: not Hillary Clinton,
   who fought back and won the New Hampshire primary, but Michael
   Bloomberg. For several years there have been rumours that the mayor of
   New York is considering an independent run for the presidency. These
   gained credence following his decision to speak at the University of
   Oklahoma's conference on bipartisanship, on January 7th.

   The point of the event, as David Boren, the university's president and
   a former senator, explained, was to "resurrect that kind of bipartisan
   statesmanship that united us as Americans to win the cold war." Some
   observers took this as a sign that the conference would be a sort of
   coming-out party for a Bloomberg campaign. And Mr Boren admitted that
   he would be tempted to support an independent candidate "if the two
   parties do not rise to the occasion."

   But after Iowa and New Hampshire there may be less space for a
   bipartisan candidate. Mr Obama is not soon going to be knocked out by
   Mrs Clinton, and John McCain, for the Republicans, has staged a
   remarkable resurrection: both men specialise in appealing across party
   boundaries. Mr Bloomberg, for his part, has repeated that he is not in
   the running, and said that he hoped the conference could serve as a
   "catalyst" for a more harmonious discourse.

   Bipartisanship is a popular cause. All the serious presidential
   candidates say they are for it. Republicans Mitt Romney and Rudy
   Giuliani were elected in the Democratic strongholds of Massachusetts
   and New York City respectively. Mrs Clinton, one of the most
   polarising women in politics, has a reputation for working well with
   her Republican colleagues in the Senate.

   This big talk may prove empty, as so often before. Faced with the
   choice between reaching across the aisle and ginning up turnout by
   appeals to the base, parties often yield to temptation. And
   politicians seldom police themselves. Even so, the spectre of a
   third-party candidacy is encouraging the Democrats and Republicans to
   behave a little better. Mr Bloomberg cannot afford to wait too long
   for the mask to crack.

